Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Angela Darlington, Interim Chief Executive Officer, UK Life
Christopher Esson, Group Investor Relations Director
Colm Holmes , Chief Executive Officer, General Insurance
Jason Windsor, Interim Chief Financial Officer
Maurice Tulloch, Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Blair Thomson Stewart, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Dominic Alexander O'Mahony, Analyst
Fahad Changazi, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

James Shuck, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Ming Zhu, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

Presentation
Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Good morning everyone, and welcome to Aviva. Now before we kick-start the
presentation, let's get some of the formalities underway with forward-looking statements.
And now I'd like to invite Maurice Tulloch, our Chief Executive to commence the
presentation. Thank you.

Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Thank you, Chris. I love the steps and the imagery we have here this morning. Good
morning and welcome everyone. I want to start with a reminder why I've taken this role?
To change Aviva, to make us more commercially focused, more competitive and bring us

Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

back to the fundamentals of insurance. Work has started at pace, we updated the market
two months ago. And since then we've made pretty good progress.
At our investor update, I said we'd separate the management of our UK Life and our UK
General Insurance businesses, and we have. I said we bring digital trading business back
into UK GI, and we have. I said we reduce annual costs by GBP300 million per annum by
2022, and we're on track. This is how I will run Aviva, delivering what we said we would.
We've also made good progress on strategy and today announced that we are evaluating
strategic options for Asian businesses. We look forward to updating you on this and the
refreshed Group strategy as alluded to in November.
Now to our interim results. I have inherited our markets momentum here at Aviva, but
more importantly I now own these results. Operating profit of GBP1.45 billion for the half
year is up 1%. Operating earnings per share of GBP0.273, up 2% and our dividend per
share of GBP0.095 is up 3%. We have a strong and resilient balance sheet and well run
business units and we've made good progress so far this year.
But I wouldn't say I'm thrilled with the performance, it's just adequate and I'm not
interested in adequate, but the changed journey for myself is only 150 days old. And
whilst I'm incredibly impatient by nature to put Aviva on the right foot, I realize we will do
much, much better.

Bloomberg Transcript

Aviva is ready and resilient for the uncertainty, which may lie ahead. But of equal
importance, I want the Company to have ambition and ultimately to have a robust
strategy to realize its potential.
Let's take a look at the results snapshot. So looking beyond the headlines. There are five
key points. I want you to takeaway from today. Firstly, we have delivered resilient results in
a challenging market with fewer one-off benefits. Our headline growth, it's adhere to my
ambitions for the business are much stronger and quite frankly, they should be, but there
are clear signs within the results of the quality and potential of our franchises. I expect our
business to respond quicker to both market headwinds and tailwinds and be far more
nimble.
Second point, we are accelerating initiatives to improve the fundamentals, the changed
journey is only just begun, but tangible progress has already been made on structure,
expenses quite frankly, my favorite commercial rigor.
We have positioned the balance sheet for all seasons, so despite external uncertainty, we
are ready and resilient. Our customers expect nothing else from Aviva. They trust us to
help them save, prepare them for retirement and protect what matters most.
Four, we're delivering on our progressive dividend policy increasing the interim dividend
by 3%.

Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

And five, since my appointment, I've worked closely with the Board on refreshing Aviva's
strategy. In conjunction with this process, we have decided to examine strategic options
for our Asian business. Our businesses in the region are strategically and financially
attractive providing strong growth opportunities and good returns.
I'll review -- will examine whether our current strategy and ownership structure is optimal
and helping our businesses reach their full potential. A full suite of options is being
considered. The broader strategy work with the Board is progressing well, and I'm looking
forward to our Investor Day on November 20th.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let's look at each of these in turn, starting with our performance highlights. Jason,
who will take you through the results in more detail following me. I will however drail some
of the key themes that put our results into perspective and reinforce the strong
foundations of our business. In Life insurance, you can see on this slide, our operating
profit is down year-on-year. As we highlighted, however to you in June, this year's interim
results did not benefit from the 200 million longevity release that was included in the first
half of 2018. And there were headwinds for our savings businesses, caused by challenging
investment markets, but looking deeper and how our franchises are competing in their
respective markets provides some encouragement.
We have seen resilience and robust levels of customer net inflows into our long-term
savings businesses here in the UK and also in Europe. Both the UK and Europe saw net
inflows of circa GBP2.4 billion in the first half, and in both cases this equates to 4%
opening assets on an annualized basis. Flows into Aviva investors were more challenging,
but we have seen a pick up and external mandate wins within Aviva Investors of late,
perhaps more pleasing is the recovery of underlying investment performance at Aviva
Investors. We now have 79% of our funds bidding benchmark year-to-date in 2019, that's a
pretty good lead indicator for what lies ahead.
In general insurance and health, our first half results demonstrate that we continue to be
good and consistent underwriters. Our general insurance combined ratio improved to
95.9%, which includes an impact of 0.8% by moving our UKD costs over into UKGI. We did
however benefit from the weather and our major general insurance markets, our recovery
in Canada has accelerated as rates and claims actions begin to take hold, and we've
shifted our general insurance mix to more profitable commercial lines segments. Just as
importantly we maintain discipline when market conditions were less favorable like the
retail property and casualty sector in Ireland, and the motor insurance and individual
protection business here in the UK.
Aviva's core has been a tight range of between 94% and 97% for many years now.
Despite the variations that naturally occur on weather and market cycles. This is a
consistency is a mark of the quality of our underwriting results. The key takeaway is that
our customers' trust Aviva, divide their savings and protection, and this is reflected in our
results. There's still plenty of room for improvement.
On cost, on mix, on revenue growth and how we allocate resources to generate the
biggest impact on performance. There is also room for improvement in our corporate and

Page 3 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

debt costs, while these costs have declined due to lower interest costs and reallocation
of digital, the costs are still high and this is something I plan to address. This brings me
another topic of fundamentals, at our investor update in the 6th of June, I spoke about
the need to reduce complexity, drive greater commercial rigor and improve efficiency.
On efficiency, our plan is to reduce, to repeat operating expense base by 300 million per
annum, net of inflation by 2022. This is necessary to improve margins and make us more
competitive in our markets. We are moving at pace. And while our results show that
expenses are up 2% year-on-year. This is largely a result preparing for the high cost base
on the second half, it's still unsatisfactory.
Per our previous comments, we continue to expect operating expenses to be down in
absolute terms over the full-year. This expectation is inclusive of costs, to achieve future
savings. Run rate savings achieved so far in the first nine weeks were GBP25 million. The
transformation team is now fully in place and plans are mapped out for savings across the
business units, functions and Group centre.

Bloomberg Transcript

So you should expect some pretty bold action, including a significant reduction in the size
of our Group centre and cutting project costs by a substantive amount. A more rigorous
assessment criteria for new investment will give us substantial savings as we look to
resize the change budget from GBP600 million per annum, to a more sustainable level
that delivers value.
When I talk about running Aviva and running Aviva better, I've said often, I want to run
Aviva better with a relentless focus on the fundamentals of insurance. And sorry, if this is
becoming boring it may still be boring in five years or 10 years. I'm going to focus on
customer service. I'm going to focus on pricing. I'm going to focus on underwriting. I'm
going to focus on cost efficiency and I'm going to focus on investment performance. We
are not resting on our laurels, you know, in distribution we've had some great new
business wins, that are currently in the contracting phase. And I look forward to talking
about those to you in due course. We're continuing to leverage our digital prowess to
improve connectivity with our intermediary partners, making it easier simpler and more
efficient to deal with Aviva.
For example, in the UK protection, we've introduced an online advisor portal enabling selfserve, and reducing inbound call volumes. We've also launched My Pension into the
workplace business, we're the leaders in the UK to further capitalize on that position.
From a pricing and underwriting perspective, we're extending our data science expertise
across the entire Group, delivering quantitative and behavioral insights that are improving
risk selection, driving increased retention and ultimately improving lifetime value. There
are many, many more examples, but there'll be lots of time to look at those in more detail
in November, when we take a closer look at our businesses and talk a bit about capital.
A key focus for Aviva, particularly in times like these -- is the strength of our balance sheet
and our track record it goes back years as prudent financial managers. We made huge
progress in recent years, and I want this to continue by maintaining our financial strength
and addressing areas of debate. So I've heard many of you like debt leverage. At 30th

Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

June, our Solvency cover ratio remains well above our working range at 194% and perhaps
more importantly, a surplus capital was held up incredibly well and that's a GBP11.8 billion.
And at Centre liquidity just currently at GBP2.3 billion, certainly a high number in terms of
my memory. These are strong foundations that give us resiliency in the short-term and the
capacity to fund our deleveraging plans in the coming years. On the topic of debt, our
credit rating was recently upgraded to AA minus from Standard & Poor's, it was last
month. We are now rated in the AA range by the three major rating agencies, which is a
mark of just how far we've come. We position the balance sheet to be strong and resilient
across the economic cycle, and Jason will provide you with some additional disclosures on
this topic.
Turning to dividend. We've increased the interim dividend to GBP0.095 per share, there is
an increase of 3% and this is in line with our progressive dividend policy. Now, I expect to
have some questions about how you should interpret today's dividend when thinking
about future expectations. I'm not providing any quantitative guidance outside of
reaffirming our progressive dividend policy. But what I wouldn't say is that the key point to
take away from today is that the dividend is driven by underlying performance of
profitability and capital generation. We have a dividend that is sustainable and well
covered by OCG and we have a strong capital and cash position here at Aviva.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the short run, I would expect to see many of the actions start to work towards
strengthening our OCG; such as being growing [ph] at the fundamentals; enhanced
commercial rigor and of course, the cost reductions.
With that let me invite Jason Windsor to the podium to present our financial results.
Jason?

Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Thanks Maurice. Good morning, everyone. Maurice has summarize the results and
progress on our early strategic thinking. And how we run the Group better. I'll take you
through the half-year numbers in more detail and give you some new updates from
capital generation and asset quality.
Here all the headlines in one place. Operating profit increased by 1% to GBP1.45 billion,
operating capital generation was GBP0.8 billion. The Solvency II surplus was GBP11.8 billion
and sense of liquidity GBP2.3 billion. Our solvency cover ratio fell 10 points to 194%, largely
as a result of increased SCR following interest rate falls in France and the UK.
Dividend per share was up 3% to GBP0.095. I'll pick two points in operating profit to give
a flavor of the overall performance trends. First, in life and asset management, these
businesses are generally seeing lower operating profit. This as we highlighted in June
reflected lower longevity releases and the challenging market environment. Second is the
improvement in general insurance benefiting from the recovery in Canada, good weather
and this is despite moving digital to GI from corporate costs and other.

Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

Turning to IFRS NAV, this increased by GBP0.08 per share to GBP4.32. With the chart on
the left hand side illustrates the increase largely reflects operating earnings per share of
GBP0.27 pence, our final 2018 dividend of GBP0.21, IFRS 16 relating to the treatment of
operating leases and of course the recent Ogden announcement. We have had positive
investment variances in the first half and this is more than offset amortization of AVIF and
other intangibles.
As a result, basic EPS was GBP0.282 in the first half, up 3.5 times, compared with the prior
period. It's worth touching on investment variances as we've had questions for many of
you on this. Variances largely arise because of the choice we make on capital
management. We manage our capital on an economic basis to protect the Solvency II
balance sheet. This is the capital, which drives our ability to meet regulatory requirements
and pay dividends. This approach can result in some volatility in IFRS profit which we
classify as non-operating.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would also highlight amortization costs. This is an area where I'm reviewing our
presentation, particularly for internally generated intangibles. This is to ensure our
reported operating profit is most aligned with the businesses' performance. Our solvency
surplus was resilient in the first half at GBP11.8 billion. Own funds grew by GBP0.8 billion
after paying the final dividend also GBP0.8 billion. Not least in the reduction in bond yields,
our balance sheet and SCR expanded. As a result, our Solvency II cover ratio fell 10
percentage points.
The current yield environment does pose challenges for how we managed capital and
product mix. This is especially the case in our French and Italian businesses, where
volatility has required active management. I'm focused on capital generation, and as you
can see on this slide, I provided additional disclosure on OCG in the first half, breaking out
the own funds and SCR components and adding information on new and existing
business we should help you better track and understand capital generation. In terms of
OCG in the first half, underlying generation was flat at GBP0.7 billion, as was the
investment in new business of GBP0.1 billion. The decrease in total OCG of GBP0.1 billion
was mainly for moving UK digital from non-insurance into UK GI.
Looking at our cash. The picture here remain quite strong. Remittances were touch on the
GBP1.6 billion this half versus GBP1.5 billion in the prior half. There wasn't special
remittance in the first half of this year that we did benefit from accelerated phasing from
a number of businesses. The timing of cash flows from the business units does vary, due
to a range of factors; including internal capital demands; on board meeting timetables.
This is why we look at total remittances over a longer period in the six or even 12 months
typically three years.
Our sense of liquidity now stands at GBP2.3 billion, given we are prioritizing cash
deployment into debt reduction, it is possible our sense of liquidity will remain strong for
the foreseeable future. While we wait for debt maturities to come around. In the
meantime, it gives us additional flexibility to deal with challenges that might arise in the
macro environment.

Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

On the topic of macro challenges, it's worth spending a moment to revisit our investment
portfolio and balance sheet strength. We know there is considerable uncertainty in the
political environment, but the key point is, we've built this balance sheet and the asset
portfolio to withstand all weathers, it's high quality and we've not our weakened our
lending standards to chase growth. We have GBP93 billion, a direct shareholder backed
assets, we invest those assets to deliver secure long-term returns measured by economic
capital and real world spreads.
The key points to draw out are: our corporate bond exposures, a diversified and high
quality with less than 1% ratio below investment grade. Our average LTV in commercial
mortgages is 56%. You can see more details in the commercial mortgage portfolio in the
slide, including the breakdown between sectors, office retail and others. Equity release
mortgage LTV is 26%, our new business LTV is 19%; and our effective HPI assumption is
0.7% per annum.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have a longstanding strategic hedging program to manage the equity and spread risk.
As a result, our capital position remains relatively insensitive to movements in equity
markets. The 25% full would cause a full point move in our cover ratio. For corporate
spreads 100 basis point increase would only hit our cover ratio by 6 points. Our exposure
to interest rates is mostly limited to France, but we've stepped up our active
management. Via significant buffers in IFRS and Solvency II for adverse price outcomes
and the second equity release consultation. All in all, we have a strong balance sheet with
highly controlled exposure to credit and market risks.
Now turning to leverage, another topic that has featured prominently in our investor
discussions. We've committed to taking debt down by at least GBP1.5 billion by 2022. Set
out here are two of the metrics that we use to monitor our leverage; Solvency II basis and
S&P has representative of the rating agency approach. The most important to me is the
Solvency II basis, as this is the economic balance sheet and is the main focus by regulators
and inform us, as to how much debt capacity and dividend capacity that we have. Our
leverage ratio on this basis, including all hybrid, senior debt and commercial paper was
stable at 33%.
On a pro forma basis, adjusting for GBP1.5 billion of debt reduction plans, the leverage
ratio would fall to 29% and would reduce interest expense by GBP90 million per annum.
On the new S&P leverage calculation, we have 35% comfortably below the S&P neutral
threshold. And as Maurice mentioned, we were pleased S&P upgraded our financial
strength risen to AA minus last month. We made considerable efforts over a number of
years to improve financial performance and the resilience of the balance sheet. And to be
right, the AA range by each of the major three rating agencies confirms the progress
we've made.
Let's change track and shift focus on the Group financials to the business performance.
Starting with UK Life. IFRS operating profit was down 13% to GBP722 million. As we
highlighted in June, our analysis of our longevity reserve position will be completed later
this year. So we didn't have the benefit of a longevity release in the first half unlike last
year. As a result the contribution from other declined by GBP70 million. Excluding this line
and the legacy portfolio, operating profit was down 1%. Looking at the trends in our major
Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

product lines, annuity and equity release volume of 16% lower at GBP2.2 billion. We wrote
GBP1.2 billion of BPAs, a good performance will be at lower than the prior year of GBP1.5
billion.
By the end of July, we were flat year-on-year in terms of volumes written BPAs. Our BPA
pipeline remains strong and once we will continue to be selective, new business volumes
in the second half the good and beyond that. In Group Protection, new business volume
grew by 38%, it's more than offset the 9% reduction in individual new business in what
remained a competitive market. The challenging new business environment and individual
protection flowed through to our IFRS results with lower new business contribution leading
to a 4% reduction in operating profit. And the long-term savings net flows were stable at
positive GBP2.4 billion. With continued success in the workplace pension market. Net flows
were also positive in the retail platform and looking across the industry, our performance
has held up relatively well. We now have platform assets of GBP26 billion. Taken together
in a challenging environment, the UK Life business has had a reasonable performance, but
our ambitions for this business are much higher.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Europe, the results are steady. Let me start with the Life business. The 2% decline in
operating profit from our European life businesses was primarily driven by lower profits in
France and Poland. In France, our largest market in Europe, our results reflect a challenging
investment conditions, higher expenses and lower profitability in protection. These
declines were partly offset by continued strength in our Italian business, which grew life
operating profit by 32%; and Ireland where we benefited from the acquisition of Friends
First.
The increase in OCG was largely due to management actions. Our trading activity remains
solid across the European businesses. Life new business volumes increased 9% with
continued strength of hybrid product sales in Italy and strong demand for participating
products in France. You can see the impact of product mix and low interest rates in our
VNB margin, which fell from 4.5% to 3.2%. We will need to keep looking at our product mix
and volumes in the second half given where yields currently are.
General insurance in Europe showed relatively modest progress overall. With growth in
France, offset by lower profit in Ireland. Net written premium was broadly stable, unlike
other markets, we're seeing higher volumes in commercial lines. The combined ratio in GI
remained strong at 92.9% with benign weather offset by elevated large losses and a
gradual softening of the GI market environment. UK GI had a solid first half, the combined
ratio, was up 1.4% with the benefit from favorable weather, offset by lower levels of prior
year development, and an increase in costs owing to the move of digital, as I mentioned
before.
Net written some premiums are up 2% with 7% growth in commercial lines offsetting a 1%
decline in personal lines. We try to manage volume in personal lines and what has been a
soft pricing cycle and that has helped preserve profitability. In commercial, we maintained
and measured growth in top line and attractive profitability. Our SME and our Corporate &
Specialty businesses continue to make very good progress. One of the major initiatives in
UK GI has been the alignment of UK digital direct trading under the UK GI business. The

Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

businesses weren't sufficiently joined up and combining them will help to improve our
competitiveness in the direct-to-consumer and price comparison channels.
Canada is delivering a healthy recovery in its results, with the combined ratio inclusion by
over 7 percentage points to 97.5%. The benefits of pricing and claims management
initiatives have begun to emerge, with the rate increases implemented in March still to
and through to results. We remain confident in the sub-96% combined ratio target for
2020. The pricing response necessary to restore profit margins has had an impact on
lower new -- only business and this is reflected in lower net written premium in retail lines.
This was expected and was a trade-off we were willing to make to restore profitability.
With widespread increases in pricing across the market, retail volumes should normalize
over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to Aviva Investors. It's been a challenging 12-months also for asset managers,
and Aviva Investors is not been immune, with revenues and operating profit down in the
first half. Our continued focus on fundamentals has helped to deliver improved
investment performance in the first half. More than 75% of our funds are beating their
benchmark at the end of June, and we've seen AIMS performance bounce back with a
target return and target income funds, up 6% and 9% respectively. That is a good leading
indicator for the third-party business and we've seen some large mandates won in fixed
income landed in July. So the trends are encouraging, even though the results may remain
challenging in the near-term.
Asia has continued to perform well in the first half, we've grown operating profit with
Singapore in China leading the way. In Singapore, our largest market in the region. Growth
in operating profit was helped by an improved performance from our Health Insurance
business. We continue to build our Financial Adviser distribution, which is now at over
1,650 advisers and this helped to deliver 24% growth in business volumes and a 14%
growth in VNB.
So to conclude my focus is on improving operating capital generation, delivering on our
cost saving target and reducing debt leverage, while the external environment remains
challenging with very low interest rates and ongoing political uncertainty. Our balance
sheet is strong and resilient and we remain focused on serving customers and making
disciplined trading decisions across all of our businesses. We are also working to capitalize
on the tailwinds from a lower cost base from a leaner and clearer organization structure.
We should help us capture the long-term growth drivers in each of our markets.
So I'll close there. And thank you, we'll move to Q&A.

Questions And Answers
Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Three questions please;
firstly on UK life in terms of the underlying OCG. If you look at the chart, the underlying
OCG since we flat year-on-year for the underlying operating profit seems to be down

Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

relative with legacy, could you talk a little bit about what the outlook is for the OCG given
how important is, as a portion of the Group.

FINAL

Secondly, Maurice you said that you are -- I think dramatically resizing the change budgets
downwards. Does that mean you're also reducing the amount of change or you're going
to do the change in a different way, it's the second question.
And then finally on the leverage illustrations you've given both on the Solvency II basis and
also on an S&P basis. Is that purely the numerator effect there, or are you assuming
something for book value growth over the period? Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thanks, Jon. Well, I'll take the second question and Jason and can get ready for the
first and the third question. I think when I looked at the change budget, it was running
approximately about GBP600 [ph] million per annum. You know, Jon and I go back
historically that number is to be far closer to 350, 400, it's not that I'm anti-making
investments, if I can make an investment and reduce my IT run costs for example by 30%
then that make that an investment. But you do get a capacity in terms of the number of
projects and the ability to actually manage. So that's the first consideration.
The second consideration, as I want far, far greater commercial rigor. I've never seen a
bad business case, you know, someone brings me a business case that's them signing in
stone, I feel like about the cost they need and the benefits they are going to derive and
quite frankly, both the cost of crept up on original business cases and the benefits in Aviva
Life, if I'm re-sizing the change budget to make a much more appropriate level for years,
where we can deliver on the proper investments and that's part of one of my thematics
on commercial rigor for the organization.
Jason, you want to?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Sure, on the UK capital generation in the -- for the last three years, UK has been
phenomenally successful at generating capital in a largely from significant one-off actions
and the light, which you are aware of. We are very focused on underlying capital
generation, and as you mentioned, it's a business in transition from some of the older
products, some of the newer products. So it is very much on our minds and this is all of
our planning and thinking is to make sure that we can grow that number. So, we measure
quite carefully. How much capital we spend on new business. And then we've -- obviously
taking actions, run the margins and cost reduction, which will generate further growth in
OCG over the period.
On leverage, I mean the numbers on the chart were just a simple (inaudible) GBP1.5 billion
of the numerator and denominator and give you the pro forma number, is not a forecast
as part of the plan. Clearly, if we do grow book value that would be a lower number.

Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

Q - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson, KBW. Three questions; one, is in terms of the persistently large losses in
GI, does it not concern you? That's -- in terms of underwriting standards having slip deal in
terms of conditions or some issue there? I wonder, if you want to talk about that.

FINAL

Second point, I just want a update where we are with AIMS.
And the third thing is the Singaporean court case, where the PRU is suing you about
basically the bulk of your agents having come from the originally, I was wondering, you
know, what are your some thoughts on that and the potential liability there?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, Greg, let me start. I'll start with the third question. So the PRU is not suing, they are
suing Peter Tan, Aviva is not a party, so that one's that was pretty simple to answer. On
our General Insurance business, I'm actually quite pleased, I mean, we've seen our
reported core come down to GBP95.9, I think that's on a group-wide basis that includes
GBP0.8 for the one-time movement of the UKD costs over otherwise it would be GBP95.1.
It also looks quite good on a normalized basis, we're going to get large losses and we're
going to get whether we didn't have whether, it was other benign. The large losses are
not -- showing on outside of the range that we would expect on that. So there is no real
concerns there.
I think on a -- let me start by making a comment and then quite frankly, I might ask Euan,
where's Euan, to make a point, so we can just skip the mic over to Euan. Clearly
investment performance and flows or a function of performance and AIMS is at good
performance. I think, I would say, and I am sure Euan will back me on this, but Q4 last year,
and particularly December was not a good period for AIMS and hence we have seen
some of the outflows. But if you look at the performance in AIMS this year and Jason
alluded to it in his commentary has been very strong and leading performer in sort of
multi-asset fund performance. So I mean you and me obviously probably have additional
insight.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah, I think obviously, it's a high margin product and quite rightly people do pay attention
to it. And over the last 12-months or so, we've seen about 3 billion leave the AIMS
portfolio. The flow is going to raise now and I think, for me, one of the really important
things as we have been quite investing in the investment capability and we are seeing the
benefit of that. So big project for us was turning around the best performance. Part of that
was building out the equity team that obviously cost us some money, but as well as the
number in terms of number of funds beating benchmark year-to-date, our long-term track
record is restored so we've got over three and five years is 75% of our funds exceeding
benchmark.
So I think that both AIMS and there are other propositions and trade equities and
everything else are in good shape to sell into the future. So I think the problem with fund
management is when you under perform, you get punished and rightly sold. But when you
Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

perform generally things are just and you start getting the flows, but there is a lead
indicator.
Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. And so you've announced that you're looking at strategic
options in Asia. I'm wondering, if that means you've ruled out strategic options anywhere
else, perhaps you can just sort of talk about -- perhaps what you ruled out. And if you do
sell any parts of Asia. Would you look to pay down debt earlier? Jason, you made some
comment about sort of keeping cash high waiting for the maturities of the debt. Would
you actually consider buying those or back in earlier?
And then the third question, probably on the central theme is you were able to pay down
GBP1.5 billion of debt over the next few years, in any case such of future sale proceeds
and out of free cash generation. So if you raise money earlier through any disposals. What
would you then be thinking about using the spare cash flow?

Bloomberg Transcript

Oliver, good morning. Let me take all three of those questions. So I think first of all, we've
decided to examine strategic options for our Asian operations. That's what I've
announced today. However, let's not get ahead of ourselves. I mean there is lots of
potential outcomes on doing a strategic review, we said we're reviewing the businesses,
and I will review them with a focus on enhancing shareholder value.
Now clearly, I have a framework as I look through Aviva's businesses and opportunities,
where I want to invest and certainly, I'm not going to share what that framework is nor I'm
going to comment necessarily on the value of the businesses. But what I would say is,
they are strategically and financially attractive, and I am looking for ways to enhance value,
and I will update you further and everyone further when I have more to say.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Can you just quickly comment on the debt maturity profile? Would you wait for that
maturity profile?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

I mean, we've laid out our plan that we -- I think was even before the June, but we
reiterated that the GBP1.5 billion by 2022. We've only said 2022, because that's when
debt maturities allow us to do in the natural way. We've had lots of discussions about
accelerating, I mean something that we haven't ruled out. We might look at that as we sit
here today, we're very happy with the liquidity position. We do want to reduce leverage
steadily over time and as -- debt reduction is a priority for our use of cash flow.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi, this is Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Just a couple of questions. Both kind of related
to the interest rate scenarios where we are at the moment. First of all, how do you expect
to offset the headwind from that especially in GI and in European business, so for
example, France and Italy? Because it should be impacting your European life business as
well, just the way into sales have gone down to almost like negative now, so that's one.

Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

Secondly, I mean given what interest rates have done. Do you still feel comfortable about
taking our special remittances from the subs, I mean and credit market is still very, very
good. So what's the point of taking out special remittances at the moment from
businesses in case you are considering taking out from European and that businesses or
say, some other business where there is some excess capital. So what's your update on
that? Clearly, I mean things have changed where we were in March and where we are at
the moment. So, has anything changed in your view?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah, great.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Thanks for those questions. I mean, Jason?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

So, I mean interest rates does pose a financial and a strategic question for us. And we are
very conscious of the financial side of the equation. We've got excellent capital
management in Ireland teams that really helps us, you know, we present you the capital
position today following interest rate falls and had interest rate falls in July quite sharp
ones particularly in France. As you probably aware off, and we've built the balance sheet
to withstand that the best we can. But we've had to take further action as well given the -I think we've got about 1% move in the 10-year swap rate.
The longer-term question around savings products is one that we've been talking about
frankly since 2012, and we've been seeking to change the product mix in Italy and France
toward in Italy more hybrid products and France more unit-linked and protection products,
and that strategy will continue. So we trying to have a much more balanced business that
doesn't have overall, but if rates stay where they are, we will need to continue to react.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

(inaudible)

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah, just have any direct impact on dividends plus, I don't know clearly, there is an impact
on the capital and across the piece, but I understood -- I think it was -- it will starts to
impact somewhat the capital that's available for distribution, there is no immediate
impact.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, it's James Shuck from Citi. Three questions from my side. Firstly, I just wanted
to think about the strategic review on Asia, obviously is not disposal as such as this
assessing your various options. The first question around that would be on the things to
consider when it comes to existing joint-venture agreements, partnerships, if it comes to
disposals and change of ownership type causes, please?
Secondly then thinking about any potential proceeds, which again it's just a review, so it's
not a disposal. But when I look forward that your reduction in debt the GBP1.5 billion to go
further on debt, even if you wanted to which it sounds like you don't need to. You'd have
to tender for debt, which would be expensive. That then leaves the opportunity maybe to
do share buybacks at some stage, but then that's going to increase your leverage again?
How do you actually think about when you're changing the shape of the Group, we might
change your shape of the Group, what you might actually do with those proceeds? And
how you actually might deploy them?
Final question just around the dividend, so it's obviously the first time you've given the
progressive policy 3%. Is there anything we should read into that about the underlying
earnings power of the Group? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Great, thanks, James. Let me take number one. I'll also take that your third question,
Jason may want to add a bit more commentary. And I'll let Jason, take the second one. So
let me go back to the strategic review and that to be overly repetitive, but I don't want to
get ahead of myself here, we're going to examine that business and look at all options
with a review to creating value. I didn't say, if I go back to previous comments, I said and I
do want to get into kind of a culture where when I make a statement I follow through on it.
And I hope we get to that kind of cadence, but I said, I would leave no stone unturned.
And clearly I had some pretty good ideas, when I took the job as to, you know, the other
things I would look at. And obviously I work with my team in certainly the Board, and that
will continue. But I also think that we are leading towards November and come November,
will give greater clarity on to, you know, Aviva, and where I want to take it, but we've
commenced a review of Asia today and we'll look at all options.
On the third point, what should you take away from dividend in terms of underlying results
in the future sort of thinking on dividend. So we're going to move to a progressive
dividend. We're not going to give a specific formula, but clearly I look at three things, I
look at the remittances, you know, and not just the current, but the forecast for
remittances. And I look at the capital generation and also look at both the current results
and future results and in making that there is nothing more to read them, those are the
factors that we looked at. And obviously, the dividend's ultimately a decision taken by the
Board and with the conversation and conclusion that we have that earlier this week.
Do you want to talk about...

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}
Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

Yeah, I go a lot further to add, if we did have extra liquidity, it's somewhat hypothetical,
again, we're very comfortable with the position today, but I'm being more comfortable we
have more liquidity and a stronger balance sheet. So there'd be no burning needed to
return it and certainly share the buybacks and on the agenda. So we would look again at
debt reduction being a priority.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

The second question in terms of joint ventures and various agreements with bank
assurance though?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah, as it relates to the strategic review, [ph] all options are on the table. We have wholly
owned businesses there, we have ones that are, you know, existing joint ventures so
we're not going to exclude anything in a review.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, it's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. I have three questions, if I can. Firstly,
could you update us on what's happening with FPI and getting the Avipop proceeds back
to home?
Secondly, new business profits in Europe fell quite materially and you're warning about
lower sales, I think in France and Italy and because of their interest rate. Should we expect
a lower level of volumes, not just for the second half or going forward, if interest rates
remain here?
And thirdly in terms of cost savings and restructuring, I assume restructuring costs will now
be part of the operating remade in which case roughly when will the cost savings in 2021
actually overtake the restructuring costs being taken in the operating profit?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Andrew. Good morning. Let me tackle the first one, I'll let Jason comment
on the second and third questions. So with respect to Anesco, those conversations
continue with the Hong Kong regulator, those conversations actually were as recent as a
couple of weeks ago. So they are progressing with respect to the Avipop proceeds
they're held in the Italian business and the underlying solvency in our Italian business is all
in our green zone. So we're comfortable on that. So do you want to talk a bit about the
outlook for Europe and --

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah. Sure. I mean the first half is actually quite instructive, you've seen actually surge in
interest for guaranteed products as you might imagine. And we've been seeking to
tamper that with offering attractive other alternatives across the board with the level of
guarantees whilst as appealing and there's only so far, if we can continue to credit these
rates. So the -- as I said earlier, there's a balance between having a unit-linked business or
hybrid business in Italy. We continue to see good growth and there's still very strong
Page 15 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

demand for products. So it's up to the businesses actually to continue to re-engineer that
product mix and sell attractive margin products, and to do with the customer.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

FINAL

It was the --

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yes, I think on the costs. Well, I think I said this on June 6th, we are taking the restructuring
costs through P&L; we haven't choose any in that the last couple of years now. So that will
dampen the progress that we've said the full benefit -- the cost saves will be in the 2022
run rate. In the meantime, we are making progress. So if you look at the, as Maurice said
in his remarks, cost reduction already this year. I think you can see the second half last
year is the sort of high watermark, so we are already down materially versus that, so if you
sort of double in it, the first half costs for the full-year that will start to give you a sense of
the progress. But the fall in '20 and '21 will be slower, because of the restructuring costs.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. We're also in the planning season right now. So in terms of CapEx, which is a pretty
significant portion you would expect our plans that we do and they were all up from all the
business units to start to tackle the CapEx amount. We're making strong progress on the
lean group center and we have a team in place and plans afoot for every business unit,
every function in the center. So I would expect that to start accelerating.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Hi. It's Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just three questions, if I may. Just in terms of the
liquidity. I know you probably want to keep a buffer in your center holding company. So
how much of a buffer would you want to keep in there? And then what is excess? And
then what would be the pro forma leverage, if you deploy that excess to pay off the
debt? It's the first question.
The second question is, I've noticed that the BPA volumes were down at the half. I just
want to see your competitiveness relative to your peers, Legal and General quoted that
their MA spread net of the fundamental spread was about 121 bps at the half. So I know
it's very high because of the asset mix in yours as much more defensive. So if you could
tell me what your MA spread is?
And the third question is just in regards to the remittances from the BUs, could you tell
me the approximate split -- percentage split coming from what geographies in terms of
the remaining to sort of the GBP1.5 billion-odd. Thanks.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Hey. Good morning. Good morning Johnny. I'm quite comfortable having a nice liquidity
buffer, but I'll let Jason to provide you with more commentary. And then perhaps Angela
for the BPA question and then you should tackle remittances as well so.

Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Okay. Well, I mean it's -- it relates to more remittances these -- if you look through the
pack, you'll see we've broken out by country, you can see Europe is where the biggest
phasing has taken place it's in the big European markets. So that's reasonably evidenced.
The -- on liquidity, I mean, there is no reason from a risk appetite perspective, we couldn't
actually pay-off the long-term debt today but as I said I'm much more comfortable having
liquidity buffers as we go into, what is going to be an uncertain second half, we have to be
realistic. So we are being very measured and there's lots of things that we can do to
manage liquidity we'd actually bring it all up to the Group, but we are liquid both in the
subsidiaries and in the Group and we'll continue to be prudently positioned as we go
through the next six to 12-months.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Angela?

A - Angela Darlington

{BIO 19117558 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, thanks. I think the reported MA spread we have in our results is 96 basis points, that's
slightly lower than it might be over the full-year, we had little bit of drag in June on an -- on
invested assets. In terms of BPA, generally, I think we're very comfortable with where we
are, we have -- as of July, we're back to flat year-on-year and living within our appetite
and managing our balanced portfolio, making sure that BPA is an important, but not
necessarily a massively growing part of our portfolio. So I think we're very comfortable
with where we are, we compete in certain parts of the markets very well.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks, Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions please. First on longevity and the
smoothing factor with a competitor of yours yesterday indicating they would smooth
future mortality gains in particular, the one from the 2018 tables and they'd be sticking
with a smoothing factor 7.5 rather then the default factor of 7.0. Just wondering, do you
intend to do the same as them?
Second question on the house price inflation assumption, so the 0.7% is that Solvency II, I
assume it is or to IFRS assumption.
And the third question, on the second Equity Release Mortgage consultation, you seem to
imply from your comments that you were prepared for a negative there. What are your
expectations, because, of course we've already had considerable detailed guidance from
the PRA?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Okay, thanks Gordon. I think on longevity, I have had the pleasure of lots of discussions
about moving factors, one profess to understand them all, but it's something that we are
taking into account as we look at '17 and the analysis we did on '17 and the analysis we're
doing on '18. I'm not going to give you precisely how we're doing it today, but we are -we're doing the work -- we take the CMI as one input, there's lots of other mapping and
Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

other data that we take particularly from occupational pension schemes, into looking at
setting up our reserves in the ground.

FINAL

We entered the year, I think as we said at the full-year results and again in June in a very
strong position. And then when we look at the longevity reserves overall, and we look at
the trends that are in CMI '18 that's all very supportive, clearly, as I think, as you mentioned
previously, we've seen slightly lighter mortality this year we'll need to factor that in.
On the HPI assumption that's both that's effectively the ENID calculation that goes into
both the IFRS and the -- on the Solvency II tests. So we got the effective value test for
Solvency II and then we got the IFRS balance sheet. So that's net of all the adjustments
that we made for dilapidations and cost of capital and the like.
And then we're not seeing anything new on the ARM consultation, and that consultation, I
think is now closed and the PRA's considering it and we've been an active participant in
that and we'll look forward to the responses.

Q - Dominic Alexander O'Mahony

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Dom O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Three questions if that's all right. Firstly,
just coming back to the cash remittances. Could you just help us understand the phasing
in a little bit more detail. Is that a front-loading, if something might have happened in H2
or is that a delayed effect from H2 '18?
Secondly, in terms of the new business piece clearly some of the metrics are down,
whether it's sales of flows. Is there anything about I think about the VNB number is there
anything about that, that you might think about are sort of distorted whether for instance,
the movement in rates had a distorting effect on that or did anything else that might that
lead that to bounce back?
And then thirdly, I wonder if you could just remind us how the UB Banca arrangement
works, you're listening press reports suggesting they're looking to sell their insurance
business. As I understand you have a JV with them. What could -- what are the terms of
that, what sort of option price might there be on your share of that if it were to be bought
out. Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Dom. Jason, why don't you take the cash remittances and timing. VNB, I
don't know, if -- it specific to a region or country or is it overall? Just overall fine we can
start, and maybe we can call into other people and I'll take the question on the Italian
bank relations.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

The phasing was much more within '19. So it was mainly in Europe, and you can see those
numbers as I mentioned, I think, I could to the precise number about GBP500 million in
the first half. Europe won't be doing GBP1 billion for the year.
Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Did you want to talk about VNB?

FINAL

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

The VNB margin again as I said, it's primarily a European issue, UK margins down a little
bit. We are reasonably faithful we don't play with risk margins or anything like that, we give
you the number as it comes through and we give -- I think quite useful map from VNB to
Solvency II capital generation and I've sort of expanded that a little bit. So you can see a
couple of more extra line items to sort of walk you through new business in the back
book. So we'll talk about that in a bit more detail offline perhaps. I think within Europe it's
very much about product mix, I mean, volumes have been up nicely, product mix cleared
the VNB on the traditional savings is lower than on protection and unit linked. As I said a
moment ago yet we continue to manage that mix.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

But our Italian business is performing strongly we saw profit up, you know, 23% at the halfyear and that was with us being, you know, cautious on some of the economic uncertainty,
a few years ago we diversified that distribution we now get over a third of our sales from
Pinnacle, as it relates to both UBI Banca and L&G, we've got strong relationship with both
providers, good flows and we're in active conversations with both around contract
renewals.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Two questions on GI. Firstly intact pointed point to reserve
strengthening around the motor book coming from two provinces. Have you guys seen
similar trends, and then could you talk a bit about that?
Secondly, could you also touch on the UK personal line is in, what are the trends you're
seeing both around pricing, as well as claims inflation on motor and home book? Thanks.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Dhruv. I will start with a couple of comments, and I'll probably ask Colm
Holmes, who is responsible for General Insurance Aviva that arguably give more color,
then I'll be able to give. So we're pleased certainly with our Canadian turnaround. I mean
it's far from complete as a former CEO of that business, I have clear expectations on
where it should run and we have a new CEO in place was actually here today and Jason
Windsor, but pleased at GBP97.5 currently there were certainly were two provinces that
were most challenging and I think on the form of a competitor that you mentioned that
the references to Ontario and Alberta, we had taken action in both in Ontario it was
specifically about getting rate. As I mentioned on -- I think March 7th, we had 18 points a
rate on our RBC book and 8 on the Aviva book that was further rate from what we had
taken in the previous quarter.
Alberta is a little bit different, because Alberta it was a - it's even more regulated and the
action we had taken was to entirely suppress new business and hence the contraction,
Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

which actually flowed through our results, we were down two in personal lines and up
seven in commercial lines was a shift mix and that's a mix that's by design across our GI
franchise. Here in the UK, obviously rates have been pretty flat to slightly down, we're
now starting to see average premiums kind of go up about a point. I think those will
accelerate on the back of the Ogden decision. But Colm, probably have a bit more insight
that you can share with you Dhruv.

A - Colm Holmes

Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't only much out on Canada as Maurice said, Alberta is a very
different market does rate caps in place. So I think what intact are seeing is exactly what
we were seeing in a debt reduction in premium is driven by the fact that we're very
significantly depressed new business in that market, and Ontario rates are coming into
the market and their inflation is not hugely different to ours, quite frankly, Canada is also
seeing inflation, escape of water is continuing to be an issue there, and particularly far
whereas in the UK, we know what inflation in motor and is running at about 5% net around
3%, and similarly in home we're seeing inflation a coupled with Ogden, we do expect
rates to continue to harden into the future. So the rest of this year and into 2020, we
would expect to see it continuum of hardening in rates particularly in property, in motor,
it's still a competitive market and as Maurice said, I mean what we've been looking at is
remaining disciplined and what we've seen a significant growth near our commercial
business where we delivered a core GBP94.3 for the half year, which is very pleasing and
it's predominantly in liability, and property and not the motor classes.

Q - Ming Zhu

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 18456463 <GO>}

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Ming Zhu, Panmure Gordon. Just two questions please. First on your UK life book, would
you be able to give some color in terms of the OCG and stuff between how much new
business do you need in terms of volume and margin to offset, sort of, your back book,
sort of, going off. And in order to maintain or grow the OCG and just going forward?
And second question is on the Aviva Investors, it has been quite disappointing in terms of
overall profit contribution to the Group's earnings, compared to some of the composite.
Is that plans putting in place? Do you have an ideal sort of target or profit contribution to
the Group going forward? Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks Ming. I'll let Jason take the first question and I'll take the second.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

It's hard to give you precise answer, because it's subject to lots of things about mix and
types of products and the speed of the run-off, but we recycle capital pretty well, we've
got many capital like businesses only annuities really has a longer payback and that's sort
of in the five, six year time frame. So the capital that we're reinvesting is coming back to
us relatively quickly when we're growing in places like platform and work place pensions,
which brings through very much more capital generation over time. So I think the outlook
as I said earlier is to grow OCG, but we will, it's not going to shoot up as we look to invest

Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

business, invest in new business and continue to manage the back book. We'll be
managing margin, product mix and costs.

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

I mean, first thing I would say about of Aviva investors, it's core to the strategy at Aviva. I'd
like the future prospects certainly here in the UK and savings and retirement and having a
strong asset manager. It's certainly critical. Now to your point, you're right, I think you and I
would share disappointment that were down GBP14 million at the half year and now about
half of that was expected. We obviously inherited lower average AUM, we started the
year. We probably had investment performance in the previous year, which was kind of
inconsistent with -- certainly a huge swathes the last two decades where Aviva investors
has been a consistent performer. The good news is that lead indicators turnaround, as I
said and Jason said, we had two different numbers, I think I said 79%, you said over 75%.
So we probably both said 79%, we just said it differently, but 79% of our funds are beating
benchmark and that's a great indicator. We've seen that translate already into some
mandate wins, we had a couple of billion in new mandates just in the month of July and
certainly when you look at our signature fund the M series of funds, their performance in
the half-year up 6% and 8%, I think, you're in a pretty good indicator.
But we also have a great sort of real asset business and we're seeing, you know, external
flows from that, I mean our overall third-party funds were at the end of June were down
0.9%. So listen I expect that the investors to turnaround and it's core to Aviva.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Blair Stewart from BAML. First question on the UK GI, if you adjust for the
reserve releases and the weather I think it's about three point change year-on-year and
the underlying adjusted combined ratio, maybe half of that is because you alluded
additional expenses into digital, but what's going on with the other as there are actually
an underlying deterioration in the combined or is it just normal volatility with large losses
or something else in the business mix? Just on that.
And secondly just on Asia, a few points of detail, why was the Singapore profit down.
Could you give some color on the -- and what's in the -- out of GBP22 million, is that
mainly China. And FPI you're saying that you are expecting to complete in the second half
of '19? How much certainty do you have around that given what's going on so far. Thank
you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Blair. I'll take the first and third, and let Jason deal with the Singaporean
profit and the other. You're right to say the normalized at 99.3 very UK GI does include the
one-off loading of UK GI costs, that's about GBP1.6. So I'd really be GBP97.7 versus
GBP96.1 and obviously the big sort of adjustment factors are weather and a little bit on
some large losses, but we're pleased and we're obviously we're at the, certainly, in the
personal lines business, we are kind of at the bottom of the cycle. And obviously, rate
adequacy will now strengthened, we saw the market start to move and Ogden, whilst
there wasn't associated charge of 45 million will certainly to see some pricing pressures,

Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

so that we can get rates up to the net inflation which is always a good indicator, than a
future profitability.
On FPI, yeah, I expect it to complete in the second quarter, it's been a long journey and
we had a fairly substantive list of things we are working through with the two regulators
that's now down through a very, very short list and certainly myself and my director of
M&A; and my CFO are focused on getting those answers, such that we can complete that
transaction.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yes, in Singapore. Last year, I mean, as I said, we've remediated it through different
performance of the health insurance business, we had some significant repricing and
actions that we needed to take through that. Within the life business overall sales were up
the profit down slightly. It's a business mix change between savings and protection, some
of the protection was slightly higher margin with a slight different profit signature, that
we've tilted it more towards saving, which has got a longer-term, better VNB a longerterm value profile. Yes, there's a few other. I think that's right. Yeah, it is mainly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Fahad Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Hello, good morning. Fahad Changazi from Mediobanca. Just a quick questions. Are you
seeing any tangible change in the competitive environment in individual protection and
workplace pensions and home insurance, because Lloyds Bank did a tenant presentation
with their results and they're looking to target growth here in workplace individual
protection and be the number one player in home insurance. So are you seeing any
changes or any impact from them? Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yes, I'll -- let me start off with a high level comment I may ask Angela and Colm to add
some more color. So probably the most competitive segment, we've had anywhere in the
Group has been individual protection. We've seen a number of new entrance into that
market and certainly our margins have held up reasonably well, I think what's more
important as a leader in workplace and you've seen our Group Protection business is up
38%, so that's strong. Home insurance, I like the fact that we're multi-distribution players,
so we have partnership agreements many which have long 10-years remaining with a
number of the key banks, that's obviously a vehicle, we saw really good growth in our
digital and direct home insurance business and we also have our broker for us. So our
routes to market coupled with our product offerings and our claim service give me lots of
confidence in what is a very attractive segment of home insurance. So Angela or call me
anything you'd like to add.

A - Angela Darlington

{BIO 19117558 <GO>}

I guess in as Maurice said in protection there has been a hugely competitive market
already this year and we're working really hard to make sure that we're competitive on
price that we're really focused on pricing, the right places at the right time. We have very
good products and propositions and good broker references, but we have to be there a

Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

FINAL

price in those markets. So that's really our focus and we've really seen start to seeing the
benefits are picking up in the -- it's sort of later in H1 this year.
On workplace, we are number one, it's a hugely difficult technical market to enter. I think
we get a lot of coverage from ABI for the technical knowledge that we have in those
teams. So I think we continue to be confident of all and number one position in there.
We're still seeing growth in funds from existing plans and new homes coming through. So
we've always have to stay on the front foot on that, but I think we're in a very strong
position.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

The thing I would add on workplace, we're number one, the key to playing in that isn't
necessarily of products and offerings that your ability to do the administrative platforms
and we have a competitive advantage in that space.

A - Colm Holmes

{BIO 18456463 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Colm Holmes, your question to Holmes. Yes, but I mean inflation on higher than we
were expecting, we're now rating about 3 or 4 points above what the ABI is predicting in
terms of rates. So we expect that to come back, we've also changed or mix of business,
so our broker channel is down about 6%, but what we are seeing growth is in our direct
channel, and so we expect from the end of the year, you will see an improvement in the
corner home book and then that will flow again into 2020 as the rate would apply actually
start (inaudible)

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Well, thanks everyone. Appreciate you're coming here this morning, and I just reiterate a
couple of things reiterate you know a couple of themes it's early day's yet for me at Aviva.
I'm pleased with the performance, I'm pleased with the fact that as an organization we're
ready and resilient for what lies ahead, and I'm looking forward to setting a new course
for this great company that's why I took the job. My ambitions are endless and I look
forward to seeing all of you hopefully in November to share a bit more of that. So thanks
very much and enjoy your day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 23 of 24



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-08

Page 24 of 24

