Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

Q3 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Brian Duperreault, President and Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Hogan, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Life and
Retirement
Mark Lyons , Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer
Peter Zaffino, Chief Executive Officer, General Insurance and Global Chief Operating
Officer, AIG
Sabra Purtill, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Brian Meredith
Elyse Greenspan
Erik Bass
Jimmy Bhullar
Josh Shanker
Paul Newsome

Bloomberg Transcript

Thomas Gallagher

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone and welcome to AIG's Third Quarter 2019 Financial Results
Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. And at this time, I would like to
turn the conference over to Ms.Sabra Purtill, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead,
ma'am.

Sabra Purtill

{BIO 1764408 <GO>}

Good morning, and thank you all for joining us. Today's call will cover AIG's third quarter
2019 financial results announced earlier this morning. The news release, financial results,
presentation and financial supplement were posted on our website at www.aig.com at
7:00 this morning and the 10-Q for the quarter will be filed later today after the call. Our
speakers today include Brian Duperreault, President and CEO; Peter Zaffino, CEO,
General Insurance and Global Chief Operating Officer; Kevin Hogan, CEO, Life and
Retirement; and Mark Lyons, Chief Financial Officer. Following their prepared remarks, we
will have time for Q&A.

Page 1 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

Before Brian begins, note that our commentary and discussion may contain forwardlooking statements relating to company performance, market conditions, business mix
and opportunities and strategic priorities. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance or events and are based on management's current expectations. Actual
performance and events may differ materially. Factors that could cause results to differ
include the factors described in our first and second quarter 2019 reports on Form 10-Q,
our 2018 annual report on Form 10-K and other recent filings made with the SEC.
AIG is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation to update any
forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise. Additionally, some remarks may refer to non-GAAP financial measures. The
reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP figures are included in our
earnings release, financial supplement and presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian.

Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, and thank you for joining us this morning. As I've said over the past few
quarters, our leadership team has taken significant action on a number of fronts to lay the
foundation for long-term, sustainable and profitable growth at AIG. The execution of our
strategy is reflected in our results this quarter, which were in line with our expectations.
Our efforts in general insurance have been focused on fostering a culture of underwriting
excellence, outlining a consistent risk framework and reducing risk and volatility in our
portfolio. Peter and the team at GI are executing with focused urgency that is impressive,
and the marketplace has taken notice. We're beginning to see these significant efforts
pay off in our results with the third quarter performance in GI yielding remarkable
improvement over prior years. I am particularly pleased that the GI reinsurance strategy
played out as designed, dramatically reducing volatility in CAT season and preserving
capital.
We've been leading the market with our professional approach to judiciously deploying
capacity, appropriately addressing loss cost inflation and continued underwriting discipline
on our pricing models. These actions are playing out against an industry backdrop of
prolonged pressures on accident year loss ratios, loss cost inflation, significant
catastrophes over multiple years, pressuring the property lines, a lower interest rate
environment, a complex retro market and a fatigued alternative capital market.
This market dynamic is different from the past because we now see the industry as a
whole is acting more rationally and this combination of changed behavior and external
forces reaffirms my belief that this market cycle is sustainable for the foreseeable future.
One example where AIG has taken a leadership position in the industry is the way we
tackle the increasing industry-wide issue in cyber insurance. Companies are more focused
on the severity of losses, increased systemic risk, a more stringent regulatory
environment and ransom demands that are dramatically escalating. In September, we

Page 2 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

formally announced our affirmative cyber initiative and have provided clarity to the market
on how cyber coverage should be addressed and have mitigated ambiguity that existed.
Turning to our third quarter financial results. As you saw on our press release this morning,
adjusted return on common equity for the third quarter was 4.1% and 8.6% year-to-date.
Adjusted after-tax income was $505 million or $0.56 per share for the third quarter
compared to an adjusted after-tax loss of $301 million or $0.34 per share in the prior year
quarter.
Year-to-date, 2019 adjusted after-tax income was $3.57 per share, reflecting a $1.80 per
share improvement over the first nine months of 2018. General insurance delivered a third
consecutive quarter of adjusted accident quarter underwriting profit. The adjusted
accident quarter combined ratio, excluding CATs, was 95.9%, and we remain on track to
deliver an adjusted underwriting profit for the full year.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, last week, GI announced a new syndicate at Lloyd's serving the 50 billion
specialist U.S. high net worth market. Lloyd's has undertaken a comprehensive plan to
regain its preeminent position on the marketplace. We've been actively seeking
opportunities to be part of that effort. First with our acquisition of Validus, which included
Talbot, a respected Lloyd's platform, and now with this further partnership. Peter will give
you more detail on the great progress we are making in general insurance as we position
that business for the future.
Turning to Life and Retirement. We continue to produce solid results in the third quarter
with adjusted pretax income of $646 million and adjusted return on equity of 10.1%,
including the impact of the annual assumptions review. Adjusted return on equity was
12.5%, if you exclude the impact from the actuarial review process. Despite continued
headwinds from sustained low interest rates, we remain optimistic about our ability to
deliver return on common equity in the low to mid-teens for the year and the strength of
our diversified product portfolio and broad distribution network. Kevin will provide
additional information on the work he and his team are undertaking in Life and
Retirement.
Net investment income was $3.4 billion for the quarter and $11 billion for the first nine
months, which is ahead of our original expectations. Our year-to-date performance was
due largely to strong alternative returns. Mark will provide more detail on this and our
overall financials.
Finally, I wanted to touch on AIG 200, our multiyear enterprise-wide program to improve
our core processes and infrastructure. We have four core objectives for AIG 200, which
are achieving underwriting excellence, modernizing our operating infrastructure,
enhancing user and customer experiences and becoming a more unified company.
This work is absolutely critical if AIG is to become a top-performing company, and we are
carefully prioritizing areas for investment and transformation. We will provide estimated
levels on investment, charges and savings for 2020 on our fourth quarter earnings call.
Peter, as the executive leading this important initiative, will elaborate further on the
Page 3 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

progress we've made through the third quarter. Our ability to tackle transformational
projects is supported by our strong balance sheet. We are focused on maintaining
financial flexibility, while reducing our leverage and reinvesting in our businesses.
Looking to the remainder of the year and into 2020, we are confident in our ability to
achieve our goals for 2019 and continue to believe that the momentum we have
generated will enable us to deliver a double-digit ROCE by the end of 2021. We still have
a lot of work ahead of us, and I'm very pleased with the progress we are making across
the organization, remain confident that AIG is well on its way to being a leading global
insurance company.
With that, I'll hand it over to Peter.

Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Brian, and good morning, everyone. Today, I will provide an update on the
general insurance third quarter financial performance, the turnaround that we are
executing in key business units along with our observations on the current rate
environment. I will discuss the recently announced new Lloyd's syndicates serving the U.S.
high net worth market. And finally, I will close with comments on AIG 200.
The General Insurance third quarter results reflect steady progress towards our goal of
achieving sustained underwriting profitability. We continue to execute on the bold
strategic moves we identified as critical to reposition our global portfolio, which include
disciplined underwriting and reinsurance strategies, a clear focus on operational
excellence and investing in talent for the future. We continued to significantly reduce
volatility through improved risk selection and aggressive limit management, and align our
businesses with our redefined underwriting strategy. We're achieving better rate
adequacy, and in many cases, are leading the market. As we expected, it will take time for
these actions to fully earn through our reported results but I'm very pleased with our
improved financial performance.
Turning to our results. The third quarter adjusted accident quarter combined ratio was
95.9%, a 350 basis point improvement year-over-year, including a 210 basis point
improvement in the adjusted accident quarter loss ratio and a 140 basis point
improvement in the expense ratio. In North America, the adjusted accident quarter loss
ratio was 69.5%, a 30 basis point improvement year-over-year. Our financial performance
in the third quarter reflected the favorable impact of changes to our business mix, which
was achieved through reductions in higher loss ratio businesses, strong results from
Glatfelter, improved rate adequacy across a number of lines, lower frequency of property
attritional losses across retail, wholesale and Western world and the benefit of treaty and
facultative reinsurance. These positive drivers were largely offset by our crop and
specialty businesses.
Crop negatively impacted North America's adjusted accident quarter loss ratio by
approximately 100 basis points. Significant spring flooding in the Midwest affected many
of our insured farmers, which drove a higher volume of prevented planting claims. As a

Page 4 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

result, we increased our 2019 loss ratios despite remaining uncertainty regarding the
ultimate profitability of these processes. We experienced higher losses in inland marine,
aviation and energy, which negatively impacted North America's adjusted accident quarter
loss ratio by approximately 250 basis points. We continue to take actions to improve
performance in U.S. specialty lines through enhanced risk selection, rate improvement
strategies and reinsurance.
Despite these headwinds in North America, on a global basis, our Specialty business
performed very well with International seeing lower expected loss activity. North America
Personal Insurance performed as expected, with 110 basis point improvement in the
adjusted accident quarter loss ratio and a 100-basis point improvement in the adjusted
accident quarter combined ratio. Overall, I'm very pleased with North America's core
performance and believe the trends we are seeing demonstrate a higher quality, better
price and more balanced portfolio that is improving each quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to International. The adjusted accident quarter loss ratio was 53.9%, a 430-basis
point improvement year-over-year. In International Commercial, we had fewer severe and
attritional losses that were below trend, particularly in Specialty and Talbot, our Lloyd
syndicate. Additionally, re-underwriting efforts in property within the U.K. and Europe are
beginning to earn into our reported financials. The International Personal Insurance
adjusted accident quarter loss ratio improved 290 basis points as we continued to see a
favorable trend in Japan personal auto.
The third quarter expense ratio for general insurance of 34.4% was in line with our
expectations and reflects our sustained diligence around expense control. The third
quarter of 2019 was an active CAT quarter. Total net CAT losses were $497 million
compared to $1.6 billion in the third quarter of 2018 and $3 billion in the third quarter of
2017. There were nine events in the quarter, six of which occurred in North America and
three occurred in Japan. Our net CAT ratio in the third quarter was 7.5%, with 2.9%
attributable to events in North America, 3.5% attributable to Japan and 1.1% attributable to
Validus Re.
Net CAT losses from events in North America, were $203 million. Hurricane Dorian was
the single largest driver of net losses at $135 million, of which $10 million was attributable
to Validus Re. The five remaining smaller events in North America range from $10 million
to $14 million in net losses per event.
Net CAT losses from the Japan events were $294 million, of which $65 million was
attributable to Validus Re. Typhoon Faxai, the strongest typhoon to hit the Kanto region
since 2004 was the main driver of these losses. I want to provide an overview of our
business in Japan, given our significant market presence and the actions we have taken to
address our CAT exposure.
Japan is AIG's largest market outside the United States. It represents approximately $5.1
billion in gross premiums written, with 82% in Personal Lines and 18% in Commercial Lines.
AIG is the largest foreign-owned general insurance company in Japan, with an average
market share of 6% in the regions most impacted by recent CAT events. As I've said in

Page 5 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

the past, as part of our strategy to contain volatility and manage CAT within our risk
appetite, we enhanced our reinsurance coverage in Japan to reduce net retention and
protect against tail events.
When we restructured our worldwide CAT program for 2019, this included moving to a
single occurrence tower for Japan with a model expected attaching point of the 1 in 7-year
event. This dedicated occurrence protection exhausted the model of 1 in 69 year event,
and we have additional protection from our global CAT cover that provides protection in
excess of the 1 in 500-year event. Also, additionally, we also purchased international
annual aggregate protection, which attaches that one 10-year event for losses outside of
North America, with approximately 80% of the model expected losses coming from
Japan. Overall, Japan has been a profitable business with an average historical adjusted
accident year loss ratio of approximately 50% and its prospects for improved profitability
are very strong.

Bloomberg Transcript

With respect to the recent CAT events in Japan, it is still early days from Typhoon Faxai
and, as a result, industry loss estimates from the modeling firms span a broad range of
between $3 billion and $9 billion. Typhoon Hagibis, a fourth quarter event is also expected
to be sizable with AIR's early industry loss estimate currently at $8 billion to $16 billion.
To put the recent CAT activity in Japan in perspective, there have been 12 designated
catastrophic tropical storms since 1980, four of which occurred in the last two years. 2018
and 2019 will be the two largest years for insured losses from tropical storm events in the
last 40 years. However, irrespective of the eventual size of these industry losses, AIG's
expected maximum retained net loss is limited due to the benefit of both the occurrence
reinsurance and the international CAT annual agri protection.
Based on our current estimation of year-to-date CAT losses in international and excluding
Validus Re, our net loss before reinstatement premium arising from this event is
estimated at no more than approximately $75 million. We have significant additional
covers in place to protect against further fourth quarter CAT activity in our International
business, including Japan and taking Hagibis into account, our maximum retention at any
one loss is now $20 million before any additional reinstatement premiums for the
remainder of the year. With respect to Validus Re, we have an aggregate retro in place,
given the wide range of model loss estimate, it's too early to provide a net CAT loss
estimate from Typhoon Hagibis. However, we expect the retro aggregate to attach with
another $155 million in CAT losses.
As I've done in past calls, I'd like to highlight a few businesses that exemplify the work
we're doing to reduce risk, reposition our portfolio and establish AIG as the market
leader. I recognize that I've mentioned Lexington often, but the magnitude of the
turnaround in this business over the past year is powerful and worthy of another update.
In casualty, submission volume increased 62% in the third quarter, and we were successful
in further diversifying in the middle market while reducing total limits by 58% and
improving rates by 31%. In property, submission volume increased 47%, while we reduced
total limits by 74% and increased our overall proportion of excess policies from 11% at the
end of 2018 to 25% on a 2019 year-to-date basis. In addition, we increased deductibles by
18%, continued to improve terms and conditions and achieve third quarter renewal rate
Page 6 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

increases of 15%, which we expect will continue to increase, particularly due to the recent
global CAT activity.
Turning to North America retail property, we continue to reduce aggregates and exposure
to certain classes, increase deductibles and achieve meaningful rate increases. We
reduced total gross limits by over $20 billion or 37% in the third quarter and over $80
billion or 49% year-to-date. Average deductibles increased by 27% in the quarter and
30% year-to-date. These significant underwriting actions are reducing volatility, improving
attritional loss exposure and significantly reducing CAT exposure. Multi-year agreements
represented approximately 30% of the retail property portfolio at the end of the third
quarter. These agreements will be approximately 20% of the portfolio by the end of 2019
and will trend lower during 2020, as we will drive additional momentum in our reunderwriting efforts.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the third quarter, we saw North America retail property rate increases accelerate as
there was broader pullback in market capacity and disciplined underwriting was more
prevalent. The portfolio yielded high-teen rate increases and achieved mid-20s rate
increases when you exclude the impact of long-term agreements. We expect to continue
to see rate increases through the remainder of the year and into 2020.
In North America financial lines, we accelerated remediation of challenged segments. And
in the quarter, we achieved rate increases exceeding 30% across commercial D&O, led
by increases exceeding 35% in public D&O. At the same time, we reduced primary
commercial D&O aggregate limits by over 40% compared to a 30% reduction in the
second quarter, and we reduced primary commercial D&O policies with limits greater than
$10 million in lead layers by over 40%. While we've done significant work to re-underwrite
our global portfolio, we're also focused on investing in attractive growth opportunities
such as accident and health. A&H represents more than $3 billion in gross premiums
written and is one of our best performing businesses. We believe A&H will be a strong
engine of future profitable growth because global demographic trends and demand for
A&H products match up well with our product offerings and global footprint.
Now I'd like to comment briefly on the overall rate environment and some broader market
observations. We continued to see meaningful rate increases across the board in the third
quarter, a trend that has accelerated throughout the year. In some lines, rate
improvement has been at the highest level in over a decade. The overall third quarter
rate improvement for general insurance, excluding Validus and Glatfelter, was in the high
single to low double digits. North America commercial rates increased in the low double
digits compared to a high single-digit rate increase in the second quarter.
International commercial rates increased in the low to mid-single digits, on average,
across all geographies, consistent with the second quarter. Outside the specific
businesses I highlighted earlier, in North America, we're seeing meaningful rate increases
in the mid-20% range in admitted Excess Casualty and energy and international rate
increases continued to accelerate in the U.K. driven by approximately 20 points of
improvement in D&O, over 30 points of improvement in marine and low double-digit
improvements in energy.

Page 7 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

These increases are being driven by proactively addressing loss cost trend inflation as
well as our unique position as a primary lead market across the commercial insurance
landscape. As we've noted on prior calls, loss trends due to the tort environment and
social inflation continue to be key areas of focus for us. We recognize this growing trend a
while ago and we continue to monitor the changing landscape and respond to risks as
they evolve.
Given recent news reports about settlement activity, I want to touch on developments
concerning litigation-related to opioids, which has been filed primarily by state and local
governments against manufacturers, distributors and retailers. While it's too early to
predict or quantify the outcome of all the litigation or the insurance that may apply, we've
been very closely tracking these developments so that we can address these
complicated risks appropriately as they continue to evolve.
As Brian noted, we recently announced a plan to launch an innovative syndicate with
Lloyd's, focused on the U.S. high net worth portfolio. We expect this syndicate will support
new and renewing business starting in the first quarter of 2020. The specialist syndicate,
syndicate 2019 is expected to be Lloyd's largest ever single new entrant with premium of
up to $1 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lloyd's unique capital structure provides us with increased flexibility and efficiency and
enables us to attract new and diverse long-term capital partners to support profitable
growth where opportunities exist.
Before turning the call over to Kevin, I'd like to make a few comments on AIG 200. As
Brian noted, AIG 200 is our global multiyear effort to reposition AIG as a top-performing
company. We are focusing on programs that involve transformational change to our
infrastructure and underwriting operations as well as developing a new data architecture,
all of which will be designed to achieve best-in-class operations that deliver value through
scale and simplification. While AIG 200's primary purpose is not cost cutting, we do
expect to achieve a reduced expense base over time and more importantly, a much
better experience for our distribution partners, clients, policyholders and colleagues.
AIG 200 reflects our commitment to continuous improvement as we pursue operational
excellence and fortify our competitive position. We're very pleased with the high level of
engagement from colleagues across the company who are committed to shaping the
future of AIG.
Now I'll turn the call over to Kevin.

Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}

Thank you, Peter, and good morning, everyone. Life and Retirement recorded adjusted
pretax income of $646 million for the quarter and adjusted return on attributed common
equity of 10.1%. Excluding the annual actuarial assumption update, adjusted pretax income
was $789 million and adjusted return on attributed common equity was 12.5% within our
expectations.
Page 8 of 23



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

Adjusted pretax income decreased by $67 million from the prior year quarter. The primary
drivers of the difference were the annual actuarial assumption update, which accounted
for $45 million of the decrease and elevated mortality. These unfavorable impacts were
partially offset by the lower interest rate environment, driving increased call and tender
income and higher returns on fair value option securities as well as other net investment
income adjustments. There was nothing in our assumption neither review nor mortality
experience that suggested a change in the inherent profitability of our products nor a
need to change our pricing strategy. Also, it's worth noting that from a pretax income
perspective, the overall impact from the assumption update was a positive $20 million.
Year-to-date, our adjusted pretax income was $2.6 billion and adjusted return on
attributed common equity was 14%. We are pleased with our results to date, but
recognize the challenges and headwinds the low interest rate environment presents.
Along with the potential for increased volatility in equity markets, given global trade and
geopolitical concerns. The declining equity markets would, among other things, negatively
impact fees as well as deferred acquisition cost amortization. Declining interest rates
would typically result in higher returns on fair value option securities, although the impact
on net investment income could be uneven. And would depend on the timing and degree
of interest rate movement.

Bloomberg Transcript

At interest rate levels as of the end of the third quarter, our current expectation is for
base net spreads to decline by approximately 1 to 3 basis points per quarter through the
end of next year. Finally, from a statutory perspective, we expect to continue to generate
solid earnings and for our year-end 2019 risk-based capital levels to be higher than our
strong year-end 2018 levels.
Our top line results continue to reflect our ongoing strategy to leverage our broad
product portfolio and diversify distribution network to satisfy customer needs. During the
quarter, we grew index annuity sales and Individual Retirement and executed
opportunistic transactions in institutional markets. We expect lower levels of sales for
certain product lines in the fourth quarter due to lower interest rates and the uncertain
environment.
We will remain disciplined with respect to product pricing and features and continue to
deploy capital to available attractive new business opportunities. For Individual
Retirement, premiums and deposits increased slightly due to growth in indexed annuity
sales. Although fixed annuity sales were basically flat from the prior year quarter, they
have declined significantly from first quarter levels. We expect lower sales of fixed
annuities in the prevailing interest rate environment.
We achieved positive net flows, excluding retail mutual funds, which is a comparatively
small part of our earnings. Total assets under administration increased, driven by strong
equity market performance and growth of annuity deposits during the first half of the
year.
At Group Retirement, premiums and deposits were lower than the prior year quarter
driven by a decrease in individual product sales related to lower crediting rates. Net flows

Page 9 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

improved from the prior year quarter due to lower group surrender activity but still
remained negative. Although the timing of group acquisitions and individual contributions
will result in quarter-over-quarter variances in deposits, we expect surrenders and other
withdrawals to continue to drive negative net flows.
It is also important to note that the financial impact of outflows will vary based on product
characteristics. Despite facing negative net flows for a period of time, we've continued to
produce solid earnings for this business as assets under administration have continued to
grow.
For our Life insurance business, total premiums and deposits increased due to
international sales. Our U.S. Life sales declined as we deemphasize guaranteed Universal
Life sales in the current interest rate environment and indexed universal Life sales remain
under pressure. While mortality was elevated during the quarter, it should be viewed in
the context of generally favorable mortality trends we have seen over the last 2 years.

Bloomberg Transcript

For Institutional Markets, premiums and deposits increased due to a large GIC issuance
and select transactions in our pension risk transfer business. We have continued to
opportunistically grow our asset base, and our Institutional Markets business continues to
be well positioned to capitalize on available growth while remaining focused on achieving
targeted returns. Across our businesses, we are continuing to invest as needed to
prepare for the evolving regulatory and accounting landscape including the SEC's
regulation best interests, New York State's Regulation 187, NAIC's variable annuity
framework and FASB LDTI, among others.
We will take the opportunity to leverage these ongoing investments to further improve
our efficiency and competitive position. To close, we remain committed to our ongoing
strategy to leverage our broad product expertise and distribution footprint to deploy
capital to the most attractive opportunities, which we believe positions us well to help
meet growing needs for protection, retirement savings and lifetime income solutions.
Now I will turn it over to Mark.

Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Thank you, Kevin, and good morning, all. AIG's adjusted after-tax earnings per share was
$0.56 for the quarter compared to a negative $0.34 per share in the corresponding
quarter of 2018. And representing a $0.90 per share improvement. Adjusted book value
per share, which excludes AOCI and the DTA, increased 1.2% sequentially from second
quarter and increased 4.8% relative to year-end 2018.
As Brian mentioned, adjusted return on equity was an annualized 4.1% for the quarter and
8.6% on a 9-month year-to-date annualized basis. Keeping to that theme, the individual
segments achieved the following annualized 9-month year-to-date returns on attributed
equity: General insurance, 9.5%; Life and retirement, 14%; and legacy at 4.6%.
Net investment income, or NII, in the third quarter was nearly $3.5 billion on an adjusted
pretax income basis and $3.4 billion on a GAAP basis. This was nearly identical to the third
Page 10 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

quarter of 2018 on both an adjusted and GAAP basis and sequentially, was $260 million
lower on an adjusted pretax income basis and $337 million lower on a GAAP basis. This
quarter, investment income from all fixed income securities was virtually identical to that
of the third quarter of 2018, whereas returns from the hedge fund and private equity
composite is down material -- down materially to an annualized 4.6% versus the previous
6-month year-to-date return of approximately 17.6%.
Turning to general insurance. Brian and Peter commented on the accident quarter results.
So contrastingly, the calendar quarter combined ratio of 103.7% reflects 7.5 points of CAT
losses, as Peter pointed out, with Japan representing approximately 60% of the global
CAT losses. The combination of gross line reunderwriting, together with our improved
reinsurance program has resulted in a material reduction to general insurance net CAT
ratios. From 45.5% of premium in the third quarter of 2017 to 22% even in the third quarter
of 2018 to the 7.5% this quarter, an 84% reduction over a 2-year period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Additionally, the prior period development ratio was negligible for the quarter, net of ADC
recoveries and ADC amortization. Broadly speaking, calendar quarter underwriting gain
was nearly $1.5 billion higher than the third quarter of 2018, with North America
contributing $802 million of underwriting gain improvement and international operations
providing $675 million of underwriting gain improvement.
Also, both commercial and personal lines improved their accident quarter underwriting
margin, third quarter over third quarter. It's also important to comment on the general
insurance performance on a year-to-date 9-month basis versus the first month of 2018 -first 9 months of 2018. And on that basis, the year-to-date current accident year
combined ratio, excluding CATs, improved 390 basis points, with the loss ratio
contribution being a 240 basis point improvement, another 200 basis points
improvement from the GOE ratio with a partial offset of a marginal 50 basis point
increase due to the acquisition ratio.
As respect to volume, year-to-date reported net earned premiums are nearly flat with last
year on a U.S. dollar basis. But the continued success of the improved gross underwriting
strategy, together with the increasing ceded earned premiums from reinsurance treaties
place are expected to reduce the fourth quarter net earned premiums by approximately
5% sequentially by any additional reinsurance purchases.
Now I want to take the opportunity to reinforce the magnitude of the portfolio reshaping
that Peter outlined in his prepared remarks. This level of change is unprecedented in my
42 years in this business, but there are nuances, however, that should not go unnoticed.
For example, reducing Lexington casualty total limits by an impressive 58% in the quarter,
while simultaneously increasing or achieving an average rate increase in excess of 30% is
only part of the story.
The 62% increase in submission volume signals the igniting of the wholesale distribution
channel, along with its emphasis on smaller accounts that have more localized exposures
and lower capacity needs. The result in spectrum of risk quality has also broadened,
thereby improving overall rate adequacy as well.

Page 11 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

Peter also commented our general insurances achieved rate increases for the quarter and
helping to put the trajectory of those rate increases in context, 2 lines will be highlighted.
First, U.S. directors and officers liability or D&O, combining primary and coverage's
accelerated between the fourth quarter of 2018 and the third quarter of 2019, inclusive as
follows: 9% increase in the fourth quarter of 2018, 11% in the first quarter of 2019, 17% in
the second quarter of 2019 and then 28% this quarter.
Secondly, Lexington Casualty business rate increases were similarly increasing as follows;
6% in the fourth quarter of 2018, increasing to 8% in the first quarter of 2019, 20% in the
next quarter and then 30% -- 31% this quarter. Furthermore, we were extremely pleased
that our leadership position in driving rate extended even further beyond the United
States with Canada, achieving a 9% weighted overall increase, the U.K. with a 10%
increase and Continental Europe achieving 6% in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to prior year development. Although actual versus expected loss emergence was
reviewed and incorporated globally. The major areas receiving deeper reserve dives this
quarter were in decreasing order of reserve size, U.S. primary workers' compensation,
U.K. and Europe, casualty lines, U.K. and Europe financial lines, U.S. commercial property
and U.S. financial lines errors and emissions or E&O exposures. The negligible prior period
development referenced earlier, benefited from $58 million of favorable impact from the
ADC amortization of the deferred gain and therefore, adjusting for this, the development
was unfavorable by $55 million.
Unpacking this further, the pre-ADC, prior period development before any ADC
recoveries was favorable by $74 million. This potentially counterintuitive result stems from
the sliding by accident year. $226 million of net favorable development emanated from
accident years 2015 and prior, and approximately $152 million of net unfavorable
development stemming from ex years 2016 through 2018.
The accident year 2015 and prior net favorable development emanated primarily from
U.S. Workers' compensation, whereas accident year 2018 -- 2016 through 2018 net
unfavorable development stem primarily from U.S. financial E&O lines and U.K. European
casualty and financial lines, with a partial offset of a favorable development from
European Property and Specialty and European and Japan personal lines.
Digging further, approximately one-third of this aggregate $152 million of net unfavorable
development for accident years 2016 to 2018 stem from the isolated impact of 1 large
long-term agreement affecting all three accident years. Approximately another one-third
was centered in the U.S. architecture and engineers book on both the primary and excess
basis, and we reacted to this due to an increased frequency of moderate severity claims
so as to reflect negative trends more quickly than positive trends.
The remaining one-third reflected various U.K. and European impacts in casualty and
financial lines, driven by a smattering of large claims, such as in French and Italian motor
business and Irish Employers' liability. Overall, though, the pre and post ADC prior period
development represents approximately 1/10 of 1% carried reserves. As for accident year
2019 implications from the net unfavorable development we don't see any carry forward

Page 12 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

issues with a 1 long-term agreement, whereas the U.S. architects and engineers was
deemed to have a minor roll forward impact as with some of the European indication.
As a result, these which year-to-date represents 65% of total loss reserves, saw a 0.5
point loss ratio increase to accident year 2019, which reflected about 0.2 points for the
current accident quarter with another 0.3 points of catch-up for the first 2 quarters of
2019. This was virtually offset by the earned impact of stronger rate increases being
achieved on the subject lines of business and anticipated within the original 2019
budgeted loss ratio.
Turning to the Life and retirement segment. The annualized 9-month return on attributed
common equity of 14% would be unchanged after adjusting for both the actuarial
assumption impact and the removal of a large beneficial IPO gain discussed last quarter
since they virtually negated each other.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's also informative to note that on a 9-month year-to-date basis, the adjusted after-tax
income is nearly identical at $2 billion even compared to 2018. Net spreads on the variable
and index annuity composites were up marginally from last quarter, and for fixed annuities
was virtually flat with the sequential quarter. Surrender rates on a year-to-date basis were
flat for the Variable and index annuity composite and slightly better for fixed annuities
within the Individual Retirement and 70 basis points better for Group Retirement.
Life insurance experienced moderately increased mortality relative to the first half of the
year, with overall lapse rates fairly consistent with a year ago. And Institutional Markets had
roughly $350 million of pension risk transfer deals and also have roughly $375 million in
debt issuance as Kevin noted. Lastly, assets under administration increased 1.1%
sequentially and grew 10.4% through year-end 2018.
Turning to legacy. Adjusted pretax income was down slightly to $93 million on a sequential
basis, but up from $84 million in the third quarter of 2018. Like Life and Retirement,
Legacy's results reflected an adverse impact of the actuarial -- annual actuarial
assumption update of $30 million. Legacy net investment income on a year-to-date basis
was flat with 2018 at $1.8 billion, and the annualized return for the quarter was 4.4%.
As respect tax, the estimated effective tax rate was 22.6%. For the year, applicable to
adjusted pretax income and was 25.3% for the quarter, inclusive of discrete items. As you
know, the effective tax rate is updated each quarter using actual year-to-date results and
then supplemented by the forecast of the remaining quarter. As always, the tax rate is
heavily influenced each quarter by the geographic distribution of income by tax
jurisdiction.
We did not repurchase any shares in the third quarter, so our board authorization remains
at $2 billion. And moving to leverage as compared to year-end 2018, our total debt and
preferred to total capital ratio has now improved to 26.1% this quarter, which represents a
320 basis point improvement relative to year-end.

Page 13 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

We also had a bond tranche redemption of $1 billion in mid-July that had been pre-funded
by our March 2019 debt rating. This debt overlap at the end of the second quarter plus
growth in earnings drove the leverage ratio improvement to 26.1%. Adjusted book value
per share increased 4.8% from year-end 2018 and GAAP book value per share increased
15.1% at year-end 2018, benefiting from approximately $7 billion of year-to-date AOCI
gains.
And with that, I'll turn it back over to Brian.

Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. So let's go to the questions and answers. So operator, please go ahead.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions). We'll take our first question from Paul Newsom with Sandler
O'Neill. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paul Newsome

{BIO 1541286 <GO>}

I guess, I'd like to focus in on the underlying combined ratio's improvement .And is there
any sense of how we can think about the magnitude as we look prospectively into, not
necessarily next quarter, but prospectively. Obviously, there was sort of a big bang this
year with some pre-serious changes in reinsurance. But how does that roll forward look
into 2020?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Mark -- maybe, Mark, do you want to try this?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Well, clearly, you have a lot of things going on at the same time, which I understand makes
it somewhat difficult to try to penetrate. You have all the gross changes that Peter has
itemized which are fairly massive. You have an increasing accelerated rate change on a
written basis that will earn in to 2020. And you have some level of loss trend that the
industry is discussing that could perhaps go a little bit the other way.
So by not getting into chapter reverse, I think it's fair to say there'll be some level of
improvement into 2020. But the magnitude is let alone the reinsurance purchases, which
affects your mix of business. Really all need to come to bear. So at this point, I'd say
there's good, you should think about improvement, but I'm not prepared to get into the
magnitude.

Page 14 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Peter.

FINAL

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

One thing I would just add to agree with everything Mark just outlined. But the other piece
is that we've been designing reinsurance structures that reflect the portfolio that we have.
And so with all the massive changes that we've seen in the property book, I mean that's
what we're assessing over the next call it 45 days in terms of putting together some of
the reinsurance structures that reflect the risk of the portfolio today. So that will evolve as
we enter into 1/1.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yes. The only -- the other thing I'd say, Paul, is like I've given you a data point, which is our
expectation for a return on equity, which by the end of 2021, we want to get over 10%. So
in order for that to happen, clearly, the GI, key portion of it has to continue to improve.
And I think that gives some indication of what we think is going to happen, a lot of the
work that gets done is in rate, underwriting et cetera. But it also is the expense levels that
GI has and those expense levels are high, we have to get to those as well. So yes, we'd
love to be a little clear on that, but all I would say to you is we're committed to continuous
improvement in the combined ratios to get it to what should be world class levels, that's
going to take some time, but we're committed to doing it over multiple years. Next
question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paul Newsome

{BIO 1541286 <GO>}

Okay. And then --

Operator
Thank you.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Go ahead, Paul. You can do one more.

Q - Paul Newsome

{BIO 1541286 <GO>}

I was just going to ask on the life side. Any thoughts on or comments on the SEC
investigation that's obviously very topical to investors?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yes, listen. I think, you can appreciate that. We're just were not able to go into any detail
about ongoing regulatory inquiries. Beyond what you would read in our 10-Q disclosure,
that's -- that document is going to be on file soon. So I'd just point you to that for the
additional information. But thank you. Okay, next question, please.

Page 15 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

Operator
We'll take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Thomas Gallagher

{BIO 3311667 <GO>}

Good morning. I'll just ask two quick ones. Given the increase in specialty losses in North
American in commercial this quarter occurred while you've been growing top line pretty
well. Are you comfortable, you've been growing that line profitably? That's my first
question.
And then Peter, your comments on the Hagibis losses for 4Q. I just want to make sure I
have the numbers right. I was getting AIG's net retention being a maximum of around $75
million and Validus, max of $155 million. Is that a good way to think about 4Q based on
what you know today? Thanks.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yes. Let's do it backwards, so let's do the Hagibis first?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}

So the -- correct. I mean the maximum, the first part I just want to clarify the Validus for
you. Look, the first part is that because of the per occurrence and the way the
international aggregate and our global aggregate works that the maximum we would
have on Hagibis is $75 million. Assuming the forecast we've had for (inaudible) and others
end up having the gross loss that we anticipate. So, I think that $75 million is a very good
number. What I said in terms of the Validus is that their retro would attach with another
$155 million or thereabouts of retro loss. So you should think about as it goes above $155
million, we have significant retro protection in place.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yes, on the specialty, let me start, but I think Peter needs to give you the most clarity on it.
The first thing we said was North American specialty was higher. The international was
lower, net, net was actually pretty good, but it just happens to be the geographies here.
And frankly, we manage that business on a global basis, we think of it as a truly global line
You're aviation across the world. I'm not sure it's fair to classify it as something we've
been growing dramatically. And maybe Peter you could give a little bit more color on it.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Yes. No, I think you really outlined it well, Brian, I think the only other thing is we've been
getting rate in the specialty classes, when we look at a global performance in the quarter,
we were very pleased and then when we look at the global performance, what we've
seen year-to-date, it's been a very strong performer and expect it to continue to have
good performance in the future.
So like what I said in the prepared remarks is that we're looking at limit management, how
we're driving rate and how we're underwriting it. But overall, it's a very good book.
Page 16 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

Q - Thomas Gallagher

{BIO 3311667 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

FINAL

Do you want to add?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Just one thing if I could on Peter's, I think good explanation to your question about the
maximum. Just keep in mind that the $75 million, as he outlined it, in a likelihood sense, is
more likely than Validus's additive number at the collection of ceding companies with
different attachment points, and that remains to be seen. I wouldn't take those two as
additive necessarily.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Good. Okay, next question.

Operator
Our next question will come from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Josh Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for taking my questions. I'll be quick. There's sort of similar one life, one
P&C. On the P&C the improvement in commercial outstanding, when you take the
medium and large loss in the crop numbers out of it, I'm just wondering with the new
orientation of the book, is there seasonality in the accident year loss ratio in North
American commercial, that Q3 would be better than other quarters?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Well, look accident quarters are so little, small that the volatility of a single accident
quarter, I think, would exceed any kind of seasonality. I suppose you could come up with
some in property where with wind activities and things like that, you could have a seasonal
movement. And I just think you can't look at this -- an accident quarter as something that's
very, very predictable. There's a lot of volatility in a particular quarter. That's why we report
it because we have to -- I really point to the nine month as a better indication of
movement.

Q - Josh Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Okay, I appreciate that. And then on life, Kevin said that the mortality in the life business
should be viewed in the context that you've had very good mortality for the last couple of
years. Does that mean that life has been over-earning just that one sub segment and we
should consider that in our forward model?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Page 17 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

Well, Kevin.

FINAL

A - Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Josh. No, I think, the underlying message is that the third quarter was an
anomaly. We have seen our mortality well within pricing, in fact that for 8 of the last 10
quarters within pricing. And so the message is that we don't see this quarter as a
suggestion that our ongoing trend for mortality is likely to change.

Q - Josh Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Okay. Appreciate it.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Thanks, Josh. Next question.

Operator
Going next to Brian Meredith with UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Thank you. One quick clarification number and then another one. Peter, I think you said
that the events going forward now are going to have a $20 million retention. So, i.e. The
California fires going on right now, whether they get big or small, whatever, it shouldn't be
that big of an issue?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

What I was referring to was '20 is after Hagibis, that's our maximum retention in our
international business --

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Oh, International. Got you.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

In terms of -- yeah, I mean, Brian in terms of North America, we still have significant cover,
I mean we have, some buy downs that are California specific that attach at $50 million. We
have a lot of occurrence cover and we have a lot of aggregate. So I mean, it's really hard
to predict in terms of North America with the wildfires, but we have ample protection and
we'll see how it all evolves.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Great. And then my next question is there's been a lot of discussion this quarter about the
tort inflation environment particularly with respect to general liability lines. I'm just curious,
can you maybe give your perspective on it as well as what are the severity assumptions
that you're assuming in your loss picks and your kind of reserving actions today?
Page 18 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

I think, Mark, that's probably more yours.

FINAL

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Yeah, happy to. Hey, hello Brian. Thanks for the question. I think as we mentioned last
quarter, we have, I think, some pretty steep loss trend pure premium assumptions and a
lot of the lines of business subject to what you're concerned about. Some of them in the
mid to upper single-digit trends already. So that's already been kind of baked in on how
we look at things, translates into pricing models, so forth and so on. I think, on even a
broader basis, I mean, our view of those loss trends is based upon a lot of our own
information, and how that's moved over time between accident years.
And when you kind of think about the overlay of the macroeconomic environment with
everything Peter described about moving up in attachment points chopping the limits
dramatically, I tend to look on a portfolio basis of all that reshaping becoming a natural
inflation and hedge irrespective of whether its economic or social. So I think the book
characteristics are very protective in that respect.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, I can't emphasize enough. Thanks, Mark. About the -- whether it's a deductible or
it's an attachment point or it's layering done in some of the excess, whether it's D&O or
other excesses, all of those things are more powerful than the rate in terms of adjusting
for inflation. Next question.

Operator
Our next question will come from Jimmy Bhullar with J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. I had a question first just on the lack of buybacks so far this year. So
given that you've got the AIG 200 initiative coming up and I'm assuming you're still
interested in acquisition. Should we assume that buybacks are probably going to be fairly
light until maybe the leverage ratio has improved further? And then I had a question also
on just your flows on the life and retirement side, specifically at VALIC, they seem pretty
weak and if you could just comment on what's going on there and your outlook?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Okay. Kevin can take the flows. Let me address the buyback. So yes, we didn't buyback
this quarter. In my prepared remarks, I emphasized that I want to invest. Well, first of all,
we want to deleverage. So that's an important thing to keep in mind.
And I want to reinvest in the business, some of that is the AIG 200 still being quantified.
And the other thing to keep in mind is, when you're in a catastrophe quarter, you wouldn't
normally buyback anyway. And whether it's the third quarter or the fourth quarter, we've
seen the fourth quarter also produce some catastrophes. I just think it would be prudent
Page 19 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

not to buyback in any case, but the emphasis is on the other aspects of capital
management that I referred to. Kevin, why don't you talk about the flows.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}

Yes, sure. So, thanks Jimmy. So the situation at VALIC, we have been in a negative flow
environment over the last couple of years. I think it's a reflection of the fact that the new
case acquisition for a period of time had tailed off, we've seen an improvement in that
recently, but this is a natural effect of the aging of the portfolio.
The VALIC has been a leading participant in this business for a long time. And as either in
plan participants roll out of the plan or as people start to utilize the underlying benefits
that they have, that certainly is part of what leads to the outflows. In addition to that,
particularly in the healthcare industry over the last couple of years, there has been a lot of
M&A activity and in cases where planned consolidations occur. In some cases we're on the
winning end of those and some cases we're on the losing end of those. in we've reported
those sort of large out flows as and when they occur.
So, we're continuing to be successful in new plan acquisition. We continue to see strong
periodic deposits and non-periodic deposits. And we're likely to continue to see some
negative flows in this business, because of that natural aging effect in the portfolio. But I
think it's also important to recognize that the dollar value of the flows is uneven. If they're
higher guaranteed minimum interest rate flows, that is less of an impact on future
earnings than more recent products. And finally, the assets under management of this
portfolio, which is the source of earnings in the business have continued to grow along
with the equity market. So we're outpacing the negative flows with growth in assets under
management.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. And next question.

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
We'll go next to Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Hi, thanks. Good morning. My first question. You guys provided a lot of good information
on the pricing environment, high single to low double-digit increases, getting a lot of rate
in your commercial book. I guess, I'm trying, I think, through the rate versus trend, if you
could help us think where kind of loss trend is on a composite basis? And then how we
can think about it, I think you guys said, 0.5 point of rate versus trend this quarter, how we
could think about that building up as written and comes in to earn over the course of the
next year?.

Page 20 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Mark.

FINAL

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Well, it's a great question. See if I can give you a great answer. So, at -- first is very generic
comment. When you get 12%, that's a North American number, a 12% weighted average
written rate increase. Whether your loss trend assumption is 4, 6 or 8, you're getting
expansion. And I'm picking those out just illustratively.
So, we don't really get into what our weighted average across the board because it really
does vary by quarter with the massive changes Peter described. But we're viewing that as
a beneficial 2020 in benefit. And because the way things go in, it's going to be more
second half associated with the rate of increase of the rate changes. So, it's expansion on
a gross basis, but you're looking at our results on a net basis. And that interaction
between is very difficult to measure and probably from you on the outside looking and
even more so. But I'll just keep it, Elyse, that you should expect expansion.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Okay

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. And then my second question kind of ties back to the comment you
made about gross versus net. You guys have been buying a lot of -- changing your
reinsurance strategies in a different -- in addition to re underwriting the whole book. As
we think about 2020, are there still big reinsurance projects or is something that you have
in mind? Or we -- should we think about kind of a stable-ish retention year-over-year
meaning on we could start seeing some expansion on the net premiums line?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Thanks, Elyse. So a couple of things. One is we will be consistent with making sure that
we're looking across the portfolio for reduction of volatility and outsize line size. So there
could be segments such as financial lines that we'll look at of doing something perhaps as
we enter 2020. And then the most important part is, looking at the CAT, because we've
made so much dramatic change in terms of the gross limit and CAT exposed and the
strategic projects that we're doing with Lloyd's. So again, there's a lot of moving pieces
and the reinsurance, and what we decide to put together for 2020 will reflect the
portfolio that we have in force. And so, there will be some changes. I can't describe those
today, because we're in the middle of it and but we'll be very transparent as we hit the
sort of fourth quarter call.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Okay, good. So, we've just crossed the hour, but I think we should take one more
question before we close. So, operator, let's take one more -- one last question.

Page 21 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

Operator
Thank you. Our final question will come from Eric Bass with Autonomous. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Erik Bass

{BIO 19920101 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you for fitting me. Can you provide more details on the drivers of your annual
assumption review updates? And particularly any changes you made to your long term
interest rate assumption? And if there's any impact on go forward earnings from that?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Well, Mark. -- okay. No, I mean Kevin's better this.

A - Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Sure. Thanks. Thanks, Eric. First let's talk about what we didn't change. We did not
change our long term interest rate assumption. Our assumption, each product has its own
parameters to define -- to derive the final assumptions. But generally, we assume a
reversion to the mean over 10 years to 3.5% for the 10 year treasury. Now to the rest of
the review, as you know, we have a strong diversified portfolio between fixed index and
variable annuity as well as life insurance. And each of those lines response to economic
changes differently and experience emerges separately.
So the overriding situation rates are lower this year, which inevitably results in reduced
lapase expectations for the fixed annuities where we write up the DAC, and that
increases sort of APTI. And then in index, one of our newer products, we're just seeing
some experience emerge and where we updated lapse rates.
And then in the guaranteed living benefits, as you know, we account for those as an
embedded derivative below the line. There were two different effects on that this year,
the first was updating, our lapse model and the second was updating our mortality. And
both the fee income as well as the benefit usage goes below the line, which is why you
see that economic movement below the line.
And then finally, in the life insurance business, there's the effect of interest rates on policy
holder behavior, not dissimilar to fixed annuities. And we've updated some of our
premium projection capability and reinsurance calculations. So, net-net, I think that these
are largely changes associated with what we've seen happen in the market. No, dramatic
changes relative to the sizes of our reserves, and as I stated in my prepared remarks, we
do not see anything that changes our understanding of the inherent, profitability of the
business nor it a need to change our pricing strategy.

Q - Erik Bass

{BIO 19920101 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Page 22 of 23



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2019-11-01

FINAL

Sorry, this is Brian. I just had one follow-up on the P&C side for Peter. So in your opening
statements, you talked a little bit about the opioid and how it's still too early. Just hoping
you could maybe expand a little bit on what you guys are looking for there? And what we
should be thinking about in terms of timing of any potential reserve action or anything
along those lines?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Well, first of all, I think, look, at reserve action, I'd like Mark to talk about that first.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Sure. Well, interestingly AIG over time has been building up mass tort reserves not that
we really talk about it, but it's a meaningful number associated with in our aggregate
reserve levels across all accident years. When you get into some of these complex
coverage issues that you're talking about, it's really difficult to even talk about it, because
we don't know the theory of liability that's going to come down and how it's going to be
triggered. Therefore, you don't know exactly how it may also be played out. But we have
a good amount of net mass tort reserves and we still have roughly $6.5 billion in the ADC
that is still available for this. So we feel, from a reserve standpoint, and given what we
know today, in pretty good shape.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yes. Look, I think that probably is a good conclusion to the opioid question. So let me just - thanks, Eric. Let me close by just -- and telling everyone how pleased I am with our
progress to achieve long-term sustainable (inaudible) and profitable growth with AIG, and
I want to thank our clients, colleagues, shareholders, industry partners and other
stakeholders for their continued support. Thank you and have a great day.

Operator
This does conclude today's call. Thank you for your participation.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 23 of 23

