Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariol, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Member-Board of Management
Oliver Bäte, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Chairman
Oliver Schmidt, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew J. Ritchie, Analyst
Ebrahim Saeed, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Michael Hermann Haid, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Nicholas Holmes, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst
William Hawkins, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Allianz SE Conference Call on the
Financial Results of 2018. For your information, this conference call is being streamed live
on allianz.com and YouTube. A recording will be made available shortly after the call.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to your host today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt, Head
of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you. Good afternoon from my side as well and welcome to our conference
call. There's nothing speciﬁc to be added from my side right now, so I hand over directly
to our CEO, Oliver Bäte.

Page 1 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

Oliver Bäte
Good afternoon and good morning, and maybe to some of you, good evening from
Munich. We have a beautiful day, very much ﬁtting our numbers. I'll give you a quick
overview on what we've been achieving throughout 2016 to 2018, then a little bit of view
on the value creation strategy that we are pursuing for the next three years and then the
more concrete targets and outlook. And then Giulio is going to deep dive and then we
hope for some interesting questions after that.
So, let's turn to page 3 particularly for those that are on YouTube and other channels, so
you can follow. We had a very nice 2018. Again, three years in a row, very good numbers,
and we hit our targets on the head. Operating proﬁt up 4%, shareholders' net income up
10%, dividend up 13% to €9, something we are very proud of, while the balance sheet is
still very strong, solvency ratio stood at 229%. The return on equity is back over 13% with
13.2% and the relative total shareholder return versus the Stoxx 50 is plus 7%. So, all in all,
pretty nice.

Bloomberg Transcript

It is interesting to take a little bit of a step back to 2015 when we announced the ﬁrst
chapter of the renewal agenda. On page 04, you ﬁnd a reﬂection on what we tried to
achieve over the last three years and how we position then. The three-year EPS growth
rate on average was supposed to be 5%, ROE 13%, businesses with a Net Promoter Score
above market was target to be 75% coming from under 50%, which I'll explain in a
second, and we had out of our annual Allianz Engagement Survey, distilled an index that
would indicate the leadership quality in the company and the feedback of our people
thereon, and we wanted to achieve 72%.
Now we have, by and large, made all of these numbers. What I ﬁnd quite interesting is to
go to the right-hand side of the slide and to look at the earnings per share growth in a
number of ways. The ﬁrst one is the 10-year average between 2005 and 2015 was 2.6%.
Even worse, the analyst estimates and the consensus in March of 2016 as a base was
about 2.4%. So when we gave ourselves a target of 5%, a lot of people were scratching
their heads and said, is this possible? We actually came out with 6.2%, 2.6 times what the
analyst community consensus was at that time, and we are very happy with that.
Now, the second argument that we had to confront and that's focused on, on page A5 is
that we cannot achieve growth particularly in customer satisfaction at the same time. It is
not true. As you can see on this slide, we have made progress on all of these dimensions
at the same time, ﬁnally also in 2018 showing signiﬁcant improvement in the P&C expense
ratio while internal growth rate was at 5.7%, very, very strong and customer loyalty
jumping to 74% of the portfolio. Something, again, that we really much like because it
shows that it's not just about ﬁnancial results, it's powered by underlying improvements in
the business. And that is something very important. We can speak more about that. We
did in the press conference this morning and I'd like at this point to reiterate the point. It
wouldn't have been possible without the strong contribution of our businesses and
particularly the people that live their customer service every day.
Now, as we think about going forward, we always go very deep and talk to our investors,
that is many of you, around what are you really looking for when you think about Allianz
Page 2 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

and what are the key levers to create value. Now, the underlying driver of value is really
earnings growth. Once you reached a certain level of capital strength, and that's very
important, you still are giving us feedback, strong and resilient capitalization is super
important as is capital discipline.
I would like to reiterate the point what we said almost four years ago now. We are
managing your money very, very carefully. We are trying to make sure that it's wellinvested, that the return on invested capital remains high, above 13%, we'll get there, and
we try to invest in the things that really grow value, not just grow top line. And an
additional point was ideally a low level of earnings volatility. That is something that is
important to us, but we also need to be aware as a ﬁnancial institution, we are always
susceptible to shocks from the outside world and we're going to discuss that today.

Bloomberg Transcript

The world after quite a few years of benign environments is getting a more rocky place as
you saw in the fourth quarter of last year. And by the way, the ﬁrst quarter of last year was
also not funny. So we need to be aware the world is getting to be a more diﬃcult place
and we're reﬂecting that in our plans, which means is we're going to focus on managing
the levers that are on our disposal, not betting on markets to be benign.
Now, when you look at earnings volatility, let's take a little look at A8. And we have listed
the development of the operating proﬁt since 2008 and the business segment
diversiﬁcation that you can nicely see at the circles below. And there's been two low
points. One was 2009 that – by the way, it was not Dresdner Bank. There was large losses
in Property-Casualty, particularly in Fireman's Fund and 11 of sovereign debt crisis. Since
then, we had a very nice and continuous growth in the operating proﬁtability of the
business. And that is what we are trying to achieve to continuously build the earnings
power of the group without rocking the board along the way.
And that is also reﬂected on page number A9. We want to be very strong in terms of
resilience, whether that's equity market shocks, spread sensitivity or interest rate
sensitivity. We're going to talk about interest rate sensitivity going forward. One of the big
downsides of the group when – that goes back even to the time when I was CFO, was the
very strong interest rate sensitivity that we used to have in the Life segment. And
therefore, we had given ourselves a target to reduce that sensitivity to below 11%. Actually,
it's 4% now. So, now, spread is really what moves us, interest rates no more. And that is
what has been a decade of extreme hard work and a lot of success from the whole team.
Now, capital management discipline, page A10 gives you a very nice view from 2014 until
today in terms of the ROE development. And we have said that because of the fact that
shareholder equity is growing much faster, and has been growing much faster than net
income development, that we need to work on capital and capital payouts, which Michael
Diekmann and Dieter Wemmer announced at the time, and we then delivered and have
been delivering on.
And as you can see on the right hand side, after 2016, we've made sure that we keep on
growing the net income, but do address the overcapitalization in the business to ﬁnd the
proper return and risk tradeoﬀ. And with what we have done in the last year, we are where

Page 3 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

we are. And we're going to continue to do what we said we would do and you see that
with the announcement of the additional share buyback that we did yesterday evening.
Now, again, that is one mechanism to keep the balance between earnings growth and
capital growth in check. We obviously have other levers in particular to increase organic
growth, as we announced at the Capital Markets Day in November and then a
supplemental and bolt-on acquisitions if and when they make sense. All those instruments
remain at this disposal. And just to be very clear, Giulio will reiterate that. We keep an eye
on your capital and keep it sort of very productive, but there is no automatism in doing
share buybacks. We do that if and when it makes sense.
Now, particularly in this environment where markets are fearful of Europe and we are
signiﬁcantly undervalued by any stretch of the imagination, our own share remains one of
the most attractive investments for Allianz shareholders and management across the
investment universe. And that's why we're investing in our own shares.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, let's turn to strategy page A11. There are three objectives: to outperform on
traditional and non-traditional competitors to make really sure that Allianz remains at the
forefront of its industry in terms of performance; to transform the business, particularly
starting in retail with the Allianz Customer Model at its core; and to rebalance the capital
allocation towards more proﬁtable growth, supported by a number of initiatives, one of
them being our Direct Platform, but also across the geographic channel and customer
segment portfolio, having very clear rules and hurdle rates. Let me remind you when I get
to this section.
Let's talk a little bit about the outperform. Now, Allianz has a very good record in
outperforming on operating measures, on risk transformation, whether it's the investment
side, ALM, on pricing and underwriting, we've always had a very strong hand, but we
need to go beyond that. We need to achieve outperformance also on the customer
satisfaction side. That's why we set ourselves the targets on NPS. They're very strong. But
it's not the case that we are everywhere the loyalty leader for our clients. We are in most
of the places now above market average. We're not yet loyalty leaders in all our
businesses and that is what we have to do.
And the relative basis for decision-making is not our internal plan, it's actually
benchmarking. Who is the best in the market serving clients in terms of productivity, in
terms of proﬁtable growth, and those are the ones that we have to beat. We don't have to
focus anymore on making our internal plans for beating them. And that is only possible if
we have the right bench. We have the most motivated workforce in the industry. And
there's some more work to do in terms of making sure we train our people for the future,
and not just motivate but also enable them to compete in the digital world.
In order to do that, we are developing the Allianz Customer Model and we've spent a lot
of time on that in the Capital Markets Day, so I will not repeat that here. The core idea is to
make ourselves more simple than we are today, starting with the customer interfaces,
products and then moving into processes and then reﬂecting that in internal organization,
which given our size and scope is still quite complicated.

Page 4 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

Digitalization is a support mechanism. It's not a substitute for human beings. It is
supporting simplicity and it's supporting scalability, something that we haven't been able
as an industry to demonstrate, and Allianz has to do in order to move from a
conglomerate discount to a conglomerate premium that we believe we truly deserve.
Now, let's spend a few minutes on rebalancing capital allocation. So we've demonstrated
and proven to you over the last few years that we are indeed very disciplined in terms of
using your capital appropriately. So we started in 2015 with the commitment to move the
proﬁtability of our Life businesses, which were the ones that had the biggest challenges at
the time, to above 10%. Quite a few people, some of them in the room said, that is really
diﬃcult to do. A few years later, we have done it with all but two OEs in the group and
even those are on the way to achieve the minimum double-digit return on invested
capital. On a levered basis, the segment is probably north of 12% at this point in time. And
we need to do this across the P&C portfolio as well and we are going to work on making
sure everybody meets minimum requirements. That is the basis for allocating capital and
for allowing people to grow. We do not want top line growth for the sake of top line
growth. We want to grow value.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last but not least, we are building the European Direct Platform for two reasons. The ﬁrst
one is to make sure that the direct-to-consumer interfaces are being redeveloped without
legacy. That's the real reason why we're starting there, but obviously it will spill over and is
supported by our traditional businesses. As important is the fact that we need to rebuild
the operating platform bottom-up and not just in a way that we improve what we have
because we need to, on a unit cost basis, move to very diﬀerent levels of productivity from
where we are today.
Now, if we do this properly, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to continuously grow
the business as you have seen it over the last few years. I'd like to turn your attention to
page 13. The midpoint of the operating proﬁt target for next year stands at €11.5 billion,
4% more than it was last year. And we're continuously growing it.
On page number 14, we go back to the same type of commitment that we made three
years ago, which is we would like to grow the earnings per share more than 5%, 4% of
which should be organic. Remember, the long-term average was about 2%, and so we are
going to drive that. The proﬁtability is supposed to be north of 13% without compromising
on capital strength, customer centricity being north of 75% for the top-down NPS and the
IMIX score to top 73%.
So, we are continuously working on driving performance across all stakeholder measures.
That's what we're committing to. This is a longer-term plan. This is not about making the
next quarter target. I know that some of you have diﬀerent incentives, but that's what we
do. And you can rely on Allianz to deliver, not just in 2018 but for the years to come.
Thank you very much.
And with that, I hand over to Giulio.

Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}
Page 5 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

Thank you, Oliver, and good morning and good afternoon to everybody. I will go shortly
into the results for the fourth quarter and then speak more at length about the results of
2018.
So, if we move to page 03, we see that also in the fourth quarter we had good revenue
growth, especially in P&C we see a growth in revenue of 5%. So also in the fourth quarter,
again, we had strong delivery on the Property & Casualty side. When you look at Asset
Management, we see that revenue had been down in the fourth quarter and this is driven
by performance fees and is eventually driven by the volatility in the market. The volatility
in the market had also some impact on the operating proﬁt development compared to
the prior period for Asset Management and Life/Health, but still the results are pretty solid
considering the environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in Property & Casualty, we have been able to grow the operating proﬁt signiﬁcantly
over the level of the last year also because the load for natural catastrophe was lower and
the outcome of all this movement is that the operating proﬁt has been stable compared
to the level of last year. When we look at the shareholders' net income, we see a nice
increase of almost 20%, and this is mostly driven by the impact of the tax reform in the
United States. That impact was negative in 2017 and it has been positive obviously in 2018.
So if we move to page 5, here we had key KPIs for the entire year 2018. Again, very good
growth in our revenue and especially we are very pleased with the growth in our Property
& Casualty, which was 5.7%. I'm going to come back later on this point. The operating
proﬁt has increased by more than €400 million. This is mostly driven by the swing in
Property & Casualty. We see also an improvement of the results in Asset Management.
And in the case of Life/Health, we see a reduction of the operating proﬁt. Most of that was
already anticipated in our outlook as 2017 as you might remember was very benign from a
regulatory point of view.
And now when we look at the net income, we see a nice increase of 10%. This is the
consequence of the improvement in operating proﬁt, the eﬀect of the tax reform. And
also if you remember, we bought out the minorities of Euler Hermes, so this is also
contributing to the bottom line.
The ROE is north of 13% and the growth in EPS is 14% plus. And as you know, we have
increase in dividend of 12.5% up. So, all KPIs are showing in the right direction, which is
improving, so we are very pleased with the results that we have been able to achieve in
2018.
Now moving to page 07, here we show the solvency ratio is stable. I'm going to come
back in one second to the diﬀerent driver of the solvency ratio. Just one comment on the
sensitivity. The most sensitivities are pretty much unchanged compared to the sensitivities
that we saw in the previous quarter. One sensitivity, which is much improved, is the
sensitivity to the interest rate, down 50 basis point. If you remember, just 12 months ago,
the sensitivity was minus 11% and now it is minus 4%. So we don't have a signiﬁcant
sensitivity to interest rate. We should keep in mind the sensitivity can be a little bit volatile.

Page 6 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

We saw some volatility over the quarter, but deﬁnitely we are in a diﬀerent position
compared to the position we were just a few years ago.
Moving to page 9, here you see the driver, the development of the solvency ratio. We had
about 3 percentage point of negative impact due to regulatory changes. Just to mention
a couple, okay, one was the change in UFR which is happening by the way every year.
Then the other one was some change to the way we are including Allianz Life into the
Solvency II numbers. And the third one is that we are now including also Allianz Thailand
in our perimeter. Before Thailand was not part of the Solvency II framework. What is very
good is the development of the operating earnings, or the operating evolution which is
35%. This is obviously before we take into account for taxes and for dividend. Once we
adjust for taxes and dividend, we have nice improvements with capital generation of
about 15%, and this clearly is oﬀsetting the negative impact on the market movement. As
you know, especially the last quarter has been interesting from a market movement point
of view.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then on the capital management/management action, we had the impact of the
dividend, the buybacks and also the transaction like Euler Hermes or Taiwan or OLB, all
these transaction also impacting that driver. And then in tax that we are adjusting impact
of tax in the other restriction, so bottom line is strong capital generation and this has
oﬀset, if you want, the impact of the market and also has contributed to sustained
buybacks and also has oﬀset any regulatory model change.
And now let's go to page 11 where we show the growth for the Property and Casualty
segment. Again as said before, it is a very strong growth, 5.7%. If you look at the growth
rate, we have been able to achieve in the past in Property-Casualty, you see a growth rate
of between 2% and 3%. So what has changed? Just to mention the ﬁrst three companies
in Germany, we have been growing 4% in 2019. If you look at 2017, the growth rate was
2%. In Italy, we had a growth rate of 1% in 2017 was the negative growth rate of minus 1.3%
and even in France, for example, the growth rate has gone up 1.4% in 2017 to 2.2% in
2018. And that can go down all the list and I would say there are almost no exceptions to
the fact that we have been growing faster compared to what we did in 2017 or also 2016.
When we look at the renewal season, overall, you see a stable or positive environment. So
I wouldn't say that there is a hardening in the market, but there is also not a softening.
And considering that we have a strong position to start with, overall we see this as a
benign environment.
Moving to page 13, here we see the development of the operating proﬁt for PropertyCasualty, which went up about €700 million. There are two drivers; one is the
improvement of the combined ratio and one is the improvement in the investment results.
Just to speak now about the combined ratio. The combined ratio improved by 120 basis
points compared to the prior period and this time, it's very easy to understand the drivers.
If you see, 50 basis point improvement is coming from a lower impact on national
catastrophe.

Page 7 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

And then we had this very good news, 70 basis point improvement from the expense
ratio. You remember the beginning of last year or last year, we said we want to get to
28.4% and we are taking productivity very seriously. We have been able even to achieve
28% and that's a combination of the productivity actions that we have put in place and
also is a consequence of having a stronger growth rate compared to what we had
anticipated. Also, I'd just tell you that improvement in the combined – in the expense ratio
is more or less widespread across all entities. So, it's not just one or two entities driving
this, but there was a big push in our organization within the Allianz Group.
Page 15, you can see the combined ratio and operating proﬁt for the selected entities. I
would not go into the details now. You can ask me later. But as you see, most entities have
been able to improve the combined ratio compared to the 2017 level.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, we come to page 17 where we show the investment results. As you see, the
investment result has gone up by about €100 million compared to 2017. This may not look
intuitive. Indeed, there is a one-oﬀ, which is an accounting consequence of a change in
how we participate a policyholder to the diﬀerent proﬁt sources in our accident business
in Germany. There is also a component of giving back the premium, so there is a stock
policyholder participation. We had changed the way we participate the policyholder to
the diﬀerent sources and that has an accounting consequence, which has led to, in this
line item, to an impact of €100 million positive. There is also, not necessarily related to this
thing, a €50 million negative impact on the underwriting results; so the net is about €50
million. But that – it's important for you to understand that you need to normalize the €3
billion to €2.9 billion.
Now, €2.9 billion is a good number because that's pretty much stable over the level of
2017. And also, when we are focusing on the development of the interest income coming
from our bonds, we see that it's going down, but is not going down as we thought. So we
see some more stability compared to what we had thought in the past.
And with that, we turn to page 19. That's about the Life business. We have been able to
grow production by more than 5% and the main driver for the increase in production are
Germany and then also the United States. Still a comment, we gave ourselves the goal
three years ago that 80% of our production should be in capital-light or preferred
products and now we are at 82%. But the good news is not only that we are 82%, but also
that we are able to grow our business, having a diﬀerent product range compared to what
we had just three or four, ﬁve years ago. So that's a very, very good news.
Now, we turn to page 21. You can see here that the operating proﬁt for the Life business
has gone down compared to the level of 2017. Again, 2017 was very benign. On the
opposite, 2018 was a little bit more challenging. Reality is that we have been able more or
less to achieve our targets of €4.2 billion; so we have been very close and this is despite
the higher volatility that we have experienced not only in Q4, but also remember Q1 was
also a quarter with a lot of volatility. There are diﬀerent moving pieces as usual in the
numbers, but a main driver for the reduction in operating proﬁt is the investment margin.
Again, the majority of that was already expecting our outlook for 2018.

Page 8 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

And now at page 23, we show the operating proﬁt and the value of new business for the
selected entities, just focusing on the value of new business for one second. It is growing
double-digit and this is driven by two things. First of all, I said before, we are growing our
premium or new production by more than 5%. And the second one is we have an
increase in the new business margin of 20 basis points. So the combination of higher new
business margin and also higher production is leading to double-digit growth in value of
new business.
When we look at the operating proﬁt, we see that the operating proﬁt for the German
entity was relatively stable, which is also what we would expect in such environment. In
the United States, we see a drop on the operating proﬁt. This is, again, the consequence
of the low volatility in 2017 and higher volatility in Q1 2018. I would even say that the level
of performance in 2018 is more representative, if you want, of the underlying
performance, slightly below what we would expect, but not signiﬁcantly below. Then we
had a few headwinds in France.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other side, the development in Asia Paciﬁc has been very good with a growth rate
of 30%, which is a consequence of the growth of the business, but also it is a
consequence of the fact that we have sold our legacy block in Taiwan. And so the drag
from the legacy block in Taiwan has now vanished from our numbers, at least for half of
the year.
And now on page 25, we show the investment margin. As you can see, the investment
margin has declined by 10 basis point compared to the 2017 level. As you may remember,
our range was of a new business margin for 2018 of 90 to 95 basis points. So we are a
little bit below the range we gave you and that is because of the volatility that we saw in
the capital market. For 2019, we expect anywhere the range to be between 80 to 85 basis
points. I would say that if we have a normal volatility level, we should be at the 85 basis
point, close to the upper end of the range and then we see more volatility, we are going
to grow most likely towards more the lower end of the range and then clearly, there is
always a possibility to end up outside the range in one way or the other. But our best
guidance at this point in time is of an investment margin between 80 to 85 basis points.
Now we come to Asset Management. In Asset Management, you can see that the thirdparty assets under management have been broadly stable. When you look at the net
inﬂows ,you can see that on a net basis between AGI and PIMCO, we had for the year the
net outﬂows of about €3.5 billion. Now if you look at AGI, in reality the number is positive.
And that's a very, very positive news considering the environment. When you look at
PIMCO, we had about €8 billion of outﬂows. If you look at the quarterly development, you
can see that we had quarters with positive inﬂows and quarter with negatively inﬂows,
especially the last quarter, we had inﬂows in the amount of about €29 billion, so that was a
diﬃcult quarter. But we also see that as we are coming into 2019, we had in the month of
January €5 million of positive inﬂows.
So there is some volatility around the ﬂows, but I would say that there is nothing which is
fundamentally structural and especially in the case of PIMCO, considering the excellent
level of performance of the funds within the franchise of the business is extremely strong.
And indeed, we can see this in page 29. When you look at the revenue developments,
Page 9 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

you can see that the revenue on a F/X-adjusted basis went up 6%. If I remove then the
performance fees, that have some kind of volatility and just look at the – if you want, the
assets under management-driven fees, the increase adjusted for F/X was 9%, about 9%.
So we had a very strong increase in the revenue basis.
There are two reasons for the F/X to grow. The average asset basis during the year was
higher compared to the level of 2017, but the other point which is critical is the CIR margin
is going up and we saw that the CIR margin not only being stable, but in reality going up
over the last quarters and this, for me, speaks about the quality of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that, we can move to page 31. Clearly, when the revenue are growing, one
would expect also the operating proﬁt to grow, at least to the level of the revenue. If we
adjust for F/X eﬀect, the growth in our operating proﬁt in the Asset Management segment
was about 7%. One comment on the cost/income ratio. As you see, it's going up but here,
we need to take into account that we had consolidation, if you want to call that way, of
ACP, Allianz Capital Partners. If we remove from the numbers the consolidation of Allianz
Capital Partners, the cost-income ratio improved by about 20 basis point and this despite
the fact that we are investing in our business, both with AGI and especially at PIMCO.
And with that, on the corporate line, I would just say that the drop in investment in the
operating proﬁt of corporate line is explained by the consolidation of OLB. And so we can
move directly to page 35, where we show the nonoperating items. As you see, the
nonoperating items went a little bit more negative compared to 2017. Here, clearly, we
had a little bit less realized gains. We had a little bit more impairment and we had the
impact on the transaction in Taiwan. On the other side, restructuring charges had been
lower compared to the level of 2017.
What has deﬁnitely also impacted positively our results is the tax reform in the U.S.A. As
you see, last year, our tax rate was 29% and this year it's 26%, which is at the lower end of
the range we gave to you of 26% to 28%. And as we move forward, we expect this to be
more the less the midpoint of the tax rate you're going to see in the future years.
So page 37, that's just the famous or the regular scorecard that we show to you. Now we
are at the end of 2018, so we can look backwards, but I believe Oliver has already talked
about the very good journey over the last three years; so I don't have anything else to
add. If not, that's – I also want to thank our employees for the great eﬀort and for making
these results possible.
And with that, we turn to page 38. That's some more detail about the outlook for 2019. As
Oliver has pointed out before, that's an increase of 4% compared to the midpoint of last
year and that's led to the level of 2018. That's also a tradition that we have here at Allianz,
as you all saw in the slides of Oliver. Usually, we set the outlook at the level of the prior
period or lower. This tradition has been serving us pretty well in the last year, so we like to
keep good tradition. And on top of that, I would also say that there is some volatility
anyway that we saw in the last – not necessarily in the last weeks, but at least at the end of
2018. And we are very cautious about this volatility and this is clearly impact a little bit our
view around Asset Management. In reality, in January, the performance has been really

Page 10 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

good; so this number might be conservative. If we take what happened in January, but we
shouldn't forget that just in December, things might have looked a little bit diﬀerent.

FINAL

On the Life side, we have a outlook of €4.2 billion, which is consistent with the level of
proﬁt on 2018. Here, we need to consider that we are anticipating the consolidation of a
joint venture in Spain. And so from that point of view, in reality, if you put back the proﬁt
that we are now going to get, the number will be €100 million higher.
And then in Property-Casualty, beside the fact that you need to normalize a little bit the
proﬁt for Property-Casualty and for the one-oﬀ I was explaining before, the point is we
expect to have an improvement in the underwriting results as we go into 2019. On the
other side, we still take a very cautious view on the development of the investment
income. Up to now, usually, our estimates have been always on the conservative side. So
our investment income has been higher compared to what we have assumed, but we
continue to take a conservative view and then we see what happens in 2019.
And with that, I would like to open up to the questions you might have on our numbers or
strategy.

Q&A
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And we'll take our ﬁrst question from Michael Huttner with JPMorgan.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thank you so much and thanks for the lovely buyback. I had two very geeky
questions, so I apologize if I'm a bit boring. The ﬁrst one is on slide B 41, where you show
the MCEV, the Life embedded value. And there's the item which shows what I think of
cash ﬂow to the parent is just €190 million. Last year, it was €2.6 billion. And I was hoping
that Life generates more cash for the group. So I just wondered maybe you can speak a
little bit about that.
And then on the share buyback, maybe you can expand a bit because there seems to be
lots of interesting angles. You're saying, well, it's good to maintain the RoE, but it's not
automatic, and you only spoke about bolt-on, not large deals that you may have done in
the past. And also, maybe a little bit on the timing. Was it something you want to do by
the AGM? And still on the buyback, my favorite topic. What's on slide, I think, A 10, it says
over €5 billion capital management, and I just wonder if it opens the door to do a little bit
more in the rest of the year. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe I'll start with the question on page 41 where you see €200 million negative
impact on the market consistent embedded value, which is at the end of the day, if you
wonder the impact coming from dividend that have been distributed from our Life OEs
outside of this segment. Now, you need to adjust this number also for management
Page 11 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

action, so which have nothing to do with dividend. So we had management action that's
improved the MCEV. So you should adjust for that, which is about €300 million.
And then, we have three things that have impacted the position compared to 2017. One is
Taiwan where we had – as a consequence of the transaction, we had to send money to
Taiwan, so that's endorsed a substantial amount of money. So that's a negative impact
there. You can look at this almost like an M&A. And then, we had lower dividend or no
dividend in 2018 from Allianz Life in U.S.A. as a consequence of the tax reform and also
the consequence of growth. And in the U.S.A., when you grow premium, you have a big
charge on premium. The beauty is that when you just go down on premium, this comes
back right away.
And then, we had also less upstreaming from Italy compared to what we had in 2017. So if
you just adjust for what is not really a dividend issue and what are the impacts on these
three countries, you go back to a number which is closer to the 2017 number. So that's on
this one.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the share buybacks, so the question is what is going to happen by the AGM? I don't
think we are going to complete the €1.5 billion program by the AGM, but I would expect
that half or I would say two-thirds of the program is going to be completed by that date.
So that's what will be my guidance.
It doesn't make a lot of diﬀerence whether we are going to be done by the AGM or one or
two months later if you think about the number. But if you are interested in the payout
ratio, I will say that the payout ratio should be slightly above 50%. So, I would say
something between 50% and 51%.
In the sense of the logic of, I mean, buybacks and if we're going to do future buybacks,
my response to this question would be, we are just doing a buyback right now and we are
going to think later about potential buybacks. I think we have been very clear in
explaining our philosophy. At the end of the day, we are looking for opportunities to
create value.
And maybe I'd give you also a point of reference. We did signiﬁcant buyback in the past
and also we have a buyback right now. On the other side, we're also doing M&A. So, it's a
combination. So, if you ask me the best way to create value is somehow to have a
combination between the two. And right now, we are doing a buyback, so maybe this
might also mean that we might do some bolt-on acquisition in the future. But if we don't
ﬁnd any opportunity, we are more than happy to do buyback.
Again, we don't have a schedule. It's not that we say every X months, we're going to do a
buyback. We look at the opportunity, we look at the numbers, and then we decide based
on capital discipline, ﬁnancial discipline, that's how we decide when to do a buyback and
also how much of a buyback we want to do.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Page 12 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

Thank you so much. That's very lovely.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah.

FINAL

Operator
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Ritchie with Autonomous.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi there. Two quite big picture questions. Oliver, you talked at the beginning about how
we're in a more diﬃcult place with respect to asset markets, capital markets. Obviously,
we saw that in Q4. I just want to clarify, what is the group doing in terms of its asset
allocation? We got the annual update this time. When I look at it, it doesn't seem that
there's been any derisking of positions in credit. It looks like you're willing to take up real
assets. Real asset exposure are higher, even though I'm not sure returns are higher. So
maybe just clarify what is the group doing with respect to its own asset allocation in light
of tougher markets, potentially more credit volatility?

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second question is just a clariﬁcation. The RoE target, on the going-forward basis,
just to clarify, is it formally upgraded from 13% to 13%-plus? That being the case, what are
the other levers besides earnings growth and capital management? Or by internal capital
allocation, is there a much scope there left still in terms of to deliver the RoE plus target, if
that is the new target? Thanks.

A - Oliver Bäte
Yeah. I'll answer the ﬁrst one and Giulio can do a further one. So on the asset allocation,
Giulio can give you some more of the details. Indeed, it's watching very carefully the
credit quality that we do and including government debt exposures because they are also
relevant for us and we have been very careful. When we talk about real asset exposure,
we typically like infrastructure and less liquids assets that are less exposed to mark-tomarket volatility day-to-day.
Remember, the original target for the so-called alternatives, and when we talk alternatives,
we don't mean low credit quality. We mean real estate. We mean infrastructure. The
original target was €110 billion. We have achieved €140 billion at the end of 2018, just to
give you the comparison. So this is what we are talking about in order to make sure our
results are less volatile than they would otherwise be. And we are very careful in terms of
diversiﬁcation.
The other one is in terms of where is upside on the RoE side, indeed, we would like to
maintain an RoE higher than 13%, not just get to 13%, and there's various levers. The
number one is what we've just said and people still apparently not fully believe is that we
keep our investors' money very carefully where we needed to have it. But if we don't need
it, we'd bring it back.

Page 13 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

Now, the reason why we are on this one, in an environment that we are in where you have
lots of volatility, you need to ﬁnd the balance, not just the disciplines, between having a
very strong balance sheet and not having capital sitting idle. We have quite a few
investors said, don't go too aggressive on buybacks and on solvency because you want to
make sure that under all circumstances, Allianz will be standing. And that is a very clearly
prerequisite for anything that we do on capital management. We'd rather have a little
more on the conservative side just to be very clear.
Now, we still believe in the portfolio. I can take P&C as an example. We have
improvements in terms of capital eﬃciency, some of our wholesale businesses that are
operationally very good, AY LR, AGC&S are still extremely capital-intensive. So there are
various levers that we can pull to improve capital eﬃciency further.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

And just to clarify, are there any areas of credit risk where you have actively de-risked over
the year?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bäte
I am not aware of that in any large scale. We do this on a continuous basis. The one thing
we could talk about is that we, as we've outlined three years ago, have a consistent
strategy to reduce sovereign debt exposure in Southern Europe. Italy has been an
example where we have a long-scale schedule, but we try not to sort of panic just
because some spread widening happens. We have an optimization program that
balances returns with risk reduction. And Italy would be in a notable case we have been
reducing our exposure, but that is according to plan, not because of the elections or
anything else.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
And we'll take our next question from James Shuck with Citi.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you for taking – good afternoon even. Thank you for taking my
questions. First question was, I just want to return to the dividend and the buyback. So the
payout ratio is, are they – I think Giulio, you said it was 50% to 51%. I kind of get 51.6%, so
a little bit above that. Your kind of guidance on the dividends had been pretty clear. It's
50% on payout. So I'm just wondering whether that's just a nice rounding to get to
something like €9.00 on the dividend or are you starting to creep up a little bit on the
ordinary dividend payouts?
And then within that also on buybacks, I heard your answer from earlier. I'm just interested
to know are you moving more towards an annual cycle for buybacks or is it something

Page 14 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

that you'll just revisit at relevant reporting periods? Second question, on the Allianz
customer model, so the digitalization and product simpliﬁcation, obviously you're seeing
good beneﬁts from that, taking market share in some markets and good margins.
I'm just wondering is there a trade-oﬀ with that model? So for example, is it aﬀecting your
product delivery and it is aﬀecting the actual customer segment that you're going after.
So for example, is it mass market customers more than the higher aﬄuent who might want
some more tailored solutions?
And then, ﬁnally, just on U.S. Life. So I think the ﬁxed index annuity book was up 20% or
so across the year. Do you think that business is really starting to get too reliant on one
product? If you could give me a split of the sales by type of product, that would be
helpful, just focusing really – I imagine that kind of 70%, 80% of sales are FIAs, but
obviously there are some quite attractive valuations out there at the moment for U.S. Life
companies. So, if you did want to diversify, would M&A be something you'd consider in
that space? Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte

Bloomberg Transcript

Giulio will tell you all of the big ones. I'll start with a funny answer. We really like that €9.
So, generally, the policy is 50% payout, plus obviously the eﬀects of the share buybacks
that come on top. But just as a more facetious answer, Giulio gives you the details, the
other one on the ACM.
I think there's a misunderstanding. When we talk about harmonization of what we do, for
example, the Allianz Product Library that has more than 200 modules, then this has
nothing to do with standardization in the bad sense. You think about it as your playlist on
Spotify. You have billions of combination opportunities, but it's always the same songs
that you're combining. It's just no more printed – pressed onto a record.
So, what we're trying to say is we are creating modularity that we can replicate across
markets. And by the way, we are underpinning it with IT capabilities so that we can sell,
for example, a German life insurance product into Italy or into Belgium in the future. That
is really what is behind and that will give us, for the ﬁrst time in the history, true scale. It
doesn't mean that an aﬄuent client is going to get the boring standardized oﬀer that
doesn't meet their needs. Giulio?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. So maybe starting from the question about Allianz Life. So the production is pretty
much everything either in FIA or in a so-called Hybrid VA. And Hybrid VA, at the end of
the day from an economic point of view, is the same like ﬁxed index annuity. So the
distinction is a pure technical distinction of the way you submit the product. But I will say
that 99% of the production is ﬁxed index annuity or ﬁxed index annuity like production, so
that's obviously business we are extremely comfortable with, with the new business
margin which is now 3.7%. So that's also the bread and butter of the company. And there
is pretty much no traditional VA left; I would say it's totally negligible. Then I think the
other question on the buybacks, whether we are on an annual cycle? No, we are not on

Page 15 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

any kind of cycle again. We're deﬁnitely not in a quarterly cycle, let's put it this way, but I
wouldn't say now we are in an annual or biannual cycle.

FINAL

A - Oliver Bäte
And then just to add James, because I think actually, it's a very good question in the
following sense. Giulio has explained on the capital generation side that we typically have
an idea of what the underlying capital generation of the group is; they're about 10% of the
solvency. Now, last year, it was 15%. Yeah, it was very strong. The cylinder's kept on
pumping and when we ﬁnd out that the capital generation is stronger, I just would like to
reiterate that we are then disciplined to say whatever we don't need for the growth of the
business will give back as it emerges. So we have no incentives in the board to have your
money sitting here idle. But you also have, in light of these markets, no hurry in order to
make sure that we stay protected with a strong balance sheet. That is the balance that we
are trying to strike.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

That's helpful. Thank you. And just going back on the U.S. Life, my question was also
around do you think that business is overly reliant on one business line and shouldn't you
look to be diversifying into new areas? We've all seen what happens with – or what nearly
happened with variable annuities, for example.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. That's a good question. So, personally speaking, I can speak as the former CFO of
Allianz Life. I wouldn't say that it's critical to diversify into diﬀerent lines of business. I
would say think about that, we are speaking of the huge market, the annuity market in the
United States. And also, I would say it's more about diversiﬁcation within a diﬀerent
distribution channel. So that's the diversiﬁcation we should be looking at. But it's a huge
market. So, we think it's a niche. We are speaking of a market of billion, billions of U.S.
dollar. So, my view, I might be wrong, but my view has always been that there is enough
diversiﬁcation in revenue that you can get by diversifying distribution. And I think they're
being very focused on doing something very well, can pay oﬀ also pretty well.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

And by implication, that presumably rules out any acquisitions in the U.S. Life space, does
it?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I never rule out anything, but I will say that will be something that is not necessarily – yeah,
I wouldn't say this is something very likely. But completely ruling out something we'll
never do that. Yes.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay. Wonderful. Thank you very much.

Page 16 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. Welcome.

Operator

FINAL

We'll take our next question from Jon Hocking with Morgan Stanley.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Hi there. Good afternoon. Three questions please. Firstly, over the beginning, you were
talking about some earnings volatility reducing it as a value lever. I just wonder whether
you could talk a little bit about which lines of business or maybe geographies you see as
being particular volatile and whether you're just talking about lines of business or
potentially managing vol (00:55:20) through the mix. Is there anything left here that you
want to – you've taken, obviously, some in the Life lines, a lot of capital intensity. So, was
that something that was backward-looking or was that a forward-looking statement?

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, on AGCS, the revenues are up a lot even though the rate achieved was
relatively modest. I was just wondering are you actually calling the cycle a little bit there
and how do you sort of square the circle in terms of growing that business so much when
it's still running at above 100% combined?
And then, just ﬁnal question on the capital sensitivities, maybe a little unfairly, given what
you've done on the interest rate risk. But given the interest rate sensitivity now is so
modest, the sovereign spread is looking at one of your biggest sensitivities on the
downside. I just wondered, ﬁrstly, how much of that is Italy, and then whether there's
anything you can sort of usefully do to reduce that volatility? Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte
I'm going to talk about this earnings volatility and then can hand it over to Giulio who can
say a little bit about AGC&S strategically.
Now, it was more a backward-looking statement in terms of what is meant and it was more
solvency at the moment and then volatility out of risk that we don't get paid for. So, we
will sometimes internally say, Mr. Bäte doesn't like volatility from NatCat. No, that's not
true. I just don't like volatility that's not paid for. So, we need to make sure that we actually
get paid for taking risk and we have a very robust product framework that you know that
Dieter introduced on the top of what we've done in prior years.
I'm just reﬂecting on what investor feedback as they search for us. I'd just like to always
mention we have volatility in solvency out of credit spread that we believe we actually
economically don't have, as one of the failures in the Solvency II model because it reﬂects
run risk that we don't really see. And I would like to reiterate that and hope that that
Solvency II ﬂaw gets eventually ﬁxed one day. But the interest rate sensitivity was really
one of the things that are really bad because you don't get paid for it neither by the
market nor by that, so I'm very proud of the team in terms of having brought this one

Page 17 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

down. And that is a big achievement. AGC&S, when you look at the numbers of AGC&S,
never forget they still chew on the Fireman's Fund portfolio in the U.S.
They're still in the process of restructuring we said until 2021. They have to change their
underlying operating platform and system, so they're running on both the old and
building the new. And that creates a drag on the – it gives them a very good expense
ratio. And in terms of the growth, we're obviously looking at it and we need to look at it
very carefully. But Giulio can give you some more details.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes so. And as you say, so just tell you so we know the history. We have three years of
combined ratio of 100%. But we know for sure that it was also a lot of volatility going
against us. So we're not at 100% combined ratio as the underlying performance for AGCS,
that's very important. That said, we don't want to be complacent. We understand that
there is some work we need to do. And on the pricing side. I would tell you that we see
some stronger pricing, especially in the area that have been either aﬀected by natural
catastrophe in the past year, so also in the areas where the combined ratio, the underlying
combined ratio is higher. You can also see that a lot of competitors are suﬀering on the
industrial lines; so there is deﬁnitely a trend which is in the right direction. And now, we
need to see how strong this trend is going to be. But I sat down with the management
team of AGCS just a few a few days ago, and we can really see some rate improvement,
underwriting action that we can now get through. That wasn't necessarily the case a few
months ago. So, from that point of view, we should see an improvement, but I come back
to the point that the biggest thing is not to see this kind of volatility either from natural
catastrophe or also from the large losses that we saw. This already is going to show very
diﬀerent numbers. And then the additional improvement should lead to our target
combined ratio 96%, potentially even 95%, but I would say 96% by 2021.
So that's on AGCS. Then you have a question on the Solvency II and displace (01:00:02)
to government bond. I'd just tell you that – and the question is also how much is Italy.
Since we are stress testing the thing in a very automatic way, we just take 50 basis points
on everything, including the German bond and so on. In reality, you can apply the
percentage of how much Italian bonds we have in the portfolio. That's about 10%. So I
would say that about 1% on the sensitivity might come from Italy.
Now the point is it's most likely that we get sensitivity out of Italy as opposed to getting
the sensitivity out of a German bond. But the contribution to the sensitivity is more or less
a proportion to the portfolio. The likelihood that we're going to see sensitivity from Italy is
stronger. Now, there is a feature which is called the volatility – the country volatilityadjusted debt might kick in in some situation and even dampen their volatility. So there is
a point where in reality, you get almost cliﬀ eﬀect.
Now, to your question, to what we want to do on that, I'd just tell you that in the case of
Italy, as Oliver was just referring before, we have a kind of program where we are over
time reducing exposure. But I would not necessarily divest from German bonds because
of sensitivity, which is we know a ﬂaw, if you want, of the Solvency II calculations. So, there

Page 18 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

might be other reason not to invest in German bonds because you get zero interest rate,
but not because of the sensitivity to Solvency II.
So the answer to your question is yes. For some country, where we see higher risk, we
have already decreased our exposure and we are going to take the opportunity to further
the risk. But fundamentally, we don't think that having sensitivity to government bonds,
it's a bad thing and also consider that our Solvency ratio is extremely high. So also from
that point of view, we can deﬁnitely aﬀord this kind of sensitivity.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Just to come back on AGCS. So you're writing business (01:02:21)
technical price, not a desire to get the expense ratio down faster.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I think you have to repeat the question because I didn't get it. Can you repeat the
question? Sorry.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Yes, sorry. So on AGCS, to be clear, you're writing the business based on technical price,
not to get the expense ratio down faster.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

No, no. Absolutely. Absolutely. So, no, we are using technical price. There is sometimes
also diﬀerence between technical price, actual pricing and then you have to go through
the portfolio. But absolutely, we are driving for the portfolio on aggregate on getting the
technical price. And there is no misunderstanding that's writing business just to sustain
the expense ratio is not a good idea. And indeed, I tell you even more, the fact that we
are putting so much emphasis on productivity, it helps in reality to be disciplined on the
underwriting, because the pressure on bringing down the expense ratio and to be
productive is there and we pay attention that there is no growth that is used to somehow
get to a better expense ratio.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Okay. Very clear. Thank you very much.

Operator
And we have a question from Vinit Malhotra with Mediobanca.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Thank you very much for the chance. There's three questions, please;
one on P&C, one on Life and one on Asset Management. Start with P&C. So, just the large
losses have been a bit of a pain last year, also very much in fourth quarter. Are you
thinking a bit about them as something that will go away or maybe more reinsurance or is
Page 19 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

there some link in your models around the very high growth in some of these large
losses? If you could just comment on that or if you could provide any numbers on the
fourth quarter without large loss, that would be excellent.

FINAL

Second thing is just on the Life, so I hear the conservative approach and market risk. But
this 80% to 85% suggests what exactly that you think markets would be more volatile or
do you – or is there some other reasons for downgrading this investment margin?
Lastly on the PIMCO piece, a margin, which has been very surprising, positive, amazing
results, is this simply because more structured credit kind of products are being sold and
less because – so is it more that or is it the retail, institutional or are these one and the
same thing or maybe you could give us a sense of the ﬂow between these two lines if
possible? Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So maybe I'll start from the large losses. So clearly, we'll look into that to see
whether any kind of large loss is a consequence of bad underwriting. And indeed, we
have loss review or post loss review. Every time there is a large loss, we are going to – or
the underwriter, they're going to look into that and determine whether there was an error
in underwriting or not. But maybe I want to give you a little bit a sense of what we are
dealing with. I'm just looking at the losses of €10 million. In 2017, we had – in 2018, we had
about, let's say, 20 – 27 losses over €10 million. And in 2017, we had like 21, so 6 more
losses, but the average loss is about €20 million. So you already get to €120 million and
this already made 30 to 40 basis point to our combined ratio, loss ratio.
Now, we're speaking of 27 losses versus 21, so it's not – that's something also worries. You
can deﬁnitely argue about should be 20, 27, 30, 19, so it's something that is very diﬃcult to
give an answer. So we go back to the underwriting point. The only thing you can do is to
go through the review with the underwriters and when the underwriters say, this is okay
and we would rewrite that business, that's something that tell us that from an underwriting
point of view, we are now making a mistake.
But we are not taking this lightly. Clearly, we're looking into that. I don't think it's a major
issue anyway. We are speaking here of 20, 30, 40 basis point and there can be some
volatility over the years.
On the Life/Health side, the 80 to 85 basis point I would say is two-fold. So, on the one
side, clearly we are kind of cautious because of the volatility that we saw. But we also
know that somehow there is some pressure on the investment margin, especially in
Europe because we have a low interest rate environment. And so from that point of view,
to expect that there would be some sort of compression in the margin is reasonable. On
the other side, we shouldn't forget that the reserve basis is also growing. So there is a
little bit of an oﬀset on the absolute amounts.
And then one-third element, which is (01:07:47). When we look at the United States, we
had the tax reform and the tax reform leads to a lower tax rate, which means you can get
to the same ROE if you want, so IRR because we are speaking in terms of IRR in pricing, by
Page 20 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

having a little bit of a lower spread. And so now we didn't pass all the spreads, all the tax
reform beneﬁts to the policyholder, so we kept something for the shareholder too, but
somehow we are sharing part of it with the policyholder.
This means that we can get to a slightly higher return compared to before having a lower
investment margin. So you need to add up a little bit of caution because of the market, a
little bit of the impact on the tax reform and the United States is a big market for our
numbers and then also some compression and then you can understand why we are
putting down the margin between 80 and 85 basis points.
Then coming to the last question, which is Asset Management. I will say that in reality
when you go into all these alternative products, you might have rather an increase in
performance fees as opposed to see an increase in the fee margin because the fee
margin is without the performance fees. So, indeed, that might be even play against the
fee margin.

Bloomberg Transcript

I just go back, let's say, PIMCO, they increased about one year ago the fee on the income
front. So, when you have a performance, which is as strong as the performance of PIMCO,
then, clearly, you can have also pricing strength and you can see that. In the case of AGI,
I'd just tell you they are not giving the set targets or don't give targets to the distribution
based on ﬂows, but they give targets based on run rate revenue on the ﬂows, and this
makes a big diﬀerence.
So, when you look at the number of AGI and you try to make a relationship between the
run rate revenue on the ﬂows and the ﬂows you get very strange numbers because you
might have negative ﬂows and positive run rate revenue. And that's because of a focus of
management of AGI about getting quality business with good margin. And it's not about
chasing ﬂows; it's lower margin.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
And we'll take our next question from Nick Holmes with Société Générale.

Q - Nicholas Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Hi there. Thank you very much. Couple of questions. I wondered if you think your new
targets are stretching enough since you actually seem to be achieving most of them
already. And a good example is expenses. Your P&C expense ratio is starting to come
down. But I wondered could you give us more about your ambition here? I notice, for
example, the German expense ratio is very attractive at 25%. Is this something that could
be viable for the whole of the group? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Page 21 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

So when we look at the ambition is – the ambition that we spell out in the Capital Markets
Day just a few months ago. So, for example, when we say that on the expense ratio, we
like to be at 27.5%. Clearly, if we can run as fast as we had been doing in 2018, if we
continue to see growth, I would expect that we are even going to be better than the
27.5%, but we need to see how the next years are going to play out. And on the combined
ratio, we say we want to go to 93%. So at the end of the day, it's going to be a
combination of productivity improvement, but also working on the technical excellence.
We also need to assume, and I'm going to be very clear on that, we are not going to add
the same runoﬀ for the foreseeable future, right. Runoﬀ is going to come down and we're
aware of that. And that's the reason why we are working already now on technical
excellence to improve our numbers.
On the Life side, I think we discussed that we're going to put a lot of focus on the value of
new business growth because the value of new business growth is converting into
operating proﬁt. Also, from an analytical point of view, we want to do more work on that.
And then in Asset Management, we gave us targets also on the cost-to-income ratio. In
the case of PIMCO, we are keeping the targets that we had in the past, which is cost-toincome ratio of below 60%. And as you know, PIMCO is heavily investing in the business.
And in the case of AGI, we want to push the cost-to-income ratio below 67%. So to your
question whether we are making our life easier, I don't think we're making our life easy.
We have work in front of us, but I'm also conﬁdent that we can achieve our numbers for
2021 and let's see how much progress we do in 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nicholas Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you very much. Very clear. Just as a follow-up, sorry, on the subject
you mentioned about reserve runoﬀ is 3%. I think you've said that is your kind of
normalized level. You're running at 4% at the moment. Should we expect 3%? And if so,
how quickly?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I would say that that's my working hypothesis. We don't know how things are going to
play out. It will depend on the inﬂation. But I will say, yes, our working hypothesis is that,
over time, the runoﬀ is going to stabilize to a 3% level. This is not something that
necessarily is going to happen anywhere necessarily in 2019 or 2020. But I would say by
2021, that's the working hypothesis. So we need to ﬁx a few assumption too and then we
need to work around this assumption in order to give us also the targets that we want to
have from accident year loss ratio, from an expense ratio point of view. But that's the
number that we are using in our thinking.

A - Oliver Bäte
Just checked, okay.

Q - Nicholas Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 22 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

A - Oliver Bäte

FINAL

Nick, just so the 10-year average is anywhere between 3.5% and 3.7%. So we've always
had a strong reserve base. So I and Giulio do not expect a sudden drop oﬀ of the reserve
runoﬀ levels, but more a slow sliding scale on that. As inﬂation picks up, I think the key
long-term driver has been declining inﬂation in the industry and we have been reserving
to higher reserve levels and that is normalizing, but it's slowly but surely normalizing.

Q - Nicholas Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

That's great. The reserve ratio I noticed has been dropping a little bit. Is that something
you would recognize? The P&C reserve ratio has been falling, I think, in 2018 a few
percentage points.

A - Oliver Bäte
Yeah. The issue is that it's a little distorted by the high NatCat events. The way when we
have NatCat, we reserve a lot and then we run that oﬀ relatively quickly, and then you see
that volatility. So as NatCat results go down, then you have higher – sort of less high
reserves and that normalizes. So there is no decreasing trend in the numbers.

Q - Nicholas Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Okay. Very clear. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
And we'll take our next question from Farooq Hanif with Credit Suisse.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Just going back to the Allianz Customer Model. I
liked your Spotify description. It's kind of a good way one founding it. But it is quite
radical and is resulting in a lot of change in the way that you do business and the way your
peers do business. So just wondering what your employee response has been to it? How
they feel about it. And importantly also your agents, how onboard are they with it,
particularly given development of the Direct Platform?
Second thing is you used to have €400 million or so of annual spend on digitalization.
Has that continued? Because I know your IT budget's going up a little bit. So just
wondered what your annual spend is. And lastly, going back to the expense ratio
reduction, from switching oﬀ legacy IT, as you move to the ACM, how quickly will we see
the impact of that in cost cutting? Thanks.

A - Oliver Bäte
And Giulio can also chip in as he feels ﬁt. So, the employee base is actually static in a
positive sense because we are ﬁnally starting to produce beneﬁts from innovation in one
business to moving that to another one. And the key thing is, again, you create modules
for people to use. So, for example, we have established the Allianz Product Library in that

Page 23 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

product conﬁgurator in the Allianz business model, which allows you to bring product
design much quicker to the marketplace, bring innovation much faster to the marketplace
and then get beneﬁts out of it. For example, our top OEs and Motor are going to be all on
the same pricing, real-time pricing model relatively soon, so you can see beneﬁts from
comparing pricing algorithm across markets and that gives us competitive advantage.
On the Direct Platform and there's always nervousness, but I call that phantom pain. It's
like people that have no arm talking about the pain in their ﬁnger. Why do I say that?
Because there's no cannibalization, there is no cannibalization between direct and nondirect. We can see that in Italy and we manage that, by the way, very carefully, and the way
we approach the market. The client, however, he or she decides at the end of the day how
and where they want to buy from us. That is the person who decides what we do. It's
neither the distributors nor the product people. And we need to have a competitive oﬀer
that is scalable in the direct world. That is actually the key item when you think about
competitive dynamics, sorry for being a bit strategic. The digital players have one big
advantage. They work on platforms that are scalable. So, with every additional clients, the
average cost declines. We have, unfortunately, the reverse business model that shows that
it's 250 years old. Our cost are unit-linked step upwards. For every volume increase and
every price increase, we pay more cost mostly on distribution, and we need to get out of
that trap. It's a long-term journey, but it's essential for us to get started as quickly as
possible.
On IT, we're spending €3.6 billion a year on IT globally. About €600 million for that is on
Asset Management. By the way, they are going up because, for example, PIMCO is
massively investing in technology with its new tech center in Austin. That also explains a
bit the increase in the cost-to-income ratio there for the year and that will not go away.
What we have to do is invest it more smartly. And we always say that we have been taking
older business models and put them into new bottles, i.e. new IT. We need to make sure
we switch oﬀ the old stuﬀ and use the money wisely to simplify our products.
Now, in terms of beneﬁts coming through, great question, don't know the answer yet. We
are starting and we are going to exert enormous pressure on product and systems
retirement, not just for productivity reasons, gentlemen, but also for IT security reasons.
The biggest source of IT risk is old, undocumented ITC systems that we run. So we need
to make sure that we retire our old legacy systems as quickly as we can. I cannot give you
a speciﬁc number on what the cost beneﬁts are. Giulio has some estimates. And with that,
I hand over.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. I wanted just also to talk about your question about how much we are spending in
digitalization and similar. So we changed a little bit the taxonomy of how we are tracking
IT spending, but I can give you an idea. When we look at the IT change, which is about
€1.5 billion, for 2019, we are spending about one-third of the IT change in productivity
measure. And this has a lot to do with digitalization, simpliﬁcation of products. So, onethird of this budget gets into productivity. Then we have about 20% that we are spending
in growth and innovation. That's also tied to the topic of changing processes as we also
interface with a customer. And then, we have about 10% to 15%, which is the
commissioning. That's not necessarily about investing in digitalization, but that's about
Page 24 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

removing legacy system. This will allow us then clearly to free up resources for further
investment in digitalization. So, a lot of the budget that we deploy in IT was into the topic
of productivity, digitalization, removal of obstacle, if you want to have an easy
infrastructure to deliver our services.

FINAL

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

And so that €1.5 billion, that's an annual number or is that...?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes. That's an annual number. It's about €1.5 billion that we are spending on an annual
basis on that change the company IT budget, yes.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. That's really clear. Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will move on to Peter Eliot with Kepler Cheuvreux.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. The ﬁrst area I really wanted to do a bit of a deep dive into the
drivers of the Life business. I mean, I presume that investment margin is going to come
down much slower in future years. I'm just wondering if you could give us sort of a rough
guidance as to how you expect that to develop in future years.
And when I look at the results you just reported, that's Q4 in particular, I guess, it's a little
bit light. But when I look to the whole year, you say loadings and fees you say were up in
line with growth. But plus €100 million, I guess, is a little bit lower than the growth rate
you're seeing. So I'm just wondering if you could square that. And when you look at
guaranteed savings in annuity business, that's been a very stable quarterly contributor to
operating proﬁts, but Q4 was down I think about €200 million year-on-year. You're talking
about USA and unit linked to reclassiﬁcation in France. I don't think those were huge
driver. Look, the U.S. Q4 result was reasonably good and the unit-linked seems to be a
huge driver. So just wondering if I can understand those moving parts. And then very
quickly, on Asset Management, you said you'd had a good start to the year. I was
wondering if you could give an update on ﬂows or any other comments you want to
make. Thank you very much.

A - Oliver Bäte
Asset Management, yeah.

Page 25 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Maybe let's start from the Life side. You asked a question about how the investment
margin is going to develop, I guess, beyond 2019. The range for 2019 is 80 basis point to
85 basis point. I will say that the new business margin should – there is no business
margin, sorry – the investment margin should somehow stabilize towards the 80 basis
point maybe, could go down to 75 basis point, but then I will say that will be where the
investment margin is going to stabilize. Always keep in mind that the reserves are
growing, so there is oﬀset. But that's also the reason why when we had the Capital
Markets Day, we also said that the growth rate in Life is more about 3%. That's the reason
why we needed to get in value of new business to go up so that we can add to the growth
of our operating proﬁt. So that's already all reﬂected in our thinking.

Bloomberg Transcript

You were asking questions about the guaranteed savings in annuity and you are referring
to the fact that the number both for the year and also for the quarter has been low. This is
all driven by the VA, variable annuity. Just trust me. When you have volatility up, VA is
going to go down. And when you have volatility down, VA is going to have a very nice
proﬁt. Just to give you an idea, in 2017, the VA operating proﬁt just from the United States
was €260 million. That's a big number. That's a block which is less than €30 billion. So
when you have a 1% margin on the VA reserve, that's a huge, huge margin. Now, this year,
we had €40 million, which is clearly not as good. and that's because the volatility has
been higher. But you really need to normalize the 2017 results.
And the same applies also to the quarter. When you look at the quarter, clearly the
volatility was very high. I'd just also tell you that in the quarter in VA in the U.S. we had a
small loss. So the numbers up to September were indeed not that bad. And then in the
fourth quarter, clearly you have a loss. That's also the reason why we stopped doing VA
many years ago because we don't really like this kind of volatility.
And then I think you had a question on the loadings, and this is honestly speaking a little
bit too detail. I believe there is always some sort of noise. I wouldn't just necessarily now
take the growth and say automatically it's going to reﬂect in the way we are calculating the
loadings here.
And then on the ﬂows, I can tell you that the ﬂows in Q1 or in January have been good.
For PIMCO, we had €5 billion of ﬂows. And that's important for me. When you look at
2018, it's true that we had negative ﬂows at PIMCO. But what is important, you don't see a
trend. I will be concerned if you see a trend. But when you say that ﬂows are positive in
some quarter and we have very good quarter and then sometimes are negative and then
they go back to be positive, then I will really say this has to do with volatility. Sometimes
you might lose some big mandates and they might not really be mandates with a high
fee. And then a while back you get – later you get this money ﬂowing through. So I really
don't think there is any issue at PIMCO. And the opposite, the performance is so good
that I believe PIMCO is the place you want to go and invest if you are an investor.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Perfect. Thank you very much.

Page 26 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

Operator
And we have a question from Jonny Urwin with UBS.

FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi there. Thank you. Just two quick ones on P&C please. So what drove the 1.2 points
attritional pressure on the loss ratio in Q4, please? I suspect it's just large losses cause the
volatility, but any color on the underlying development would be good. Secondly, on
average across the book in P&C, could you give us a rough estimate of where claims
inﬂation is running and is the trend positive or negative? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So coming from the – answering the question on the attritional loss ratio, I would
say that, in reality, this year you see less volatility compared to the volatility we saw last
year. And up here, I really looking at the attritional loss ratio even adjusting for weather
related and large losses, so that's a number that you don't see, but I see. So last year in
the fourth quarter, there was, if you want, a drop in the attritional loss ratio compared to
what we saw during the year. This year you see more stability. And I believe the ﬁgures
that we see this year are more reasonable because you shouldn't expect there will be
drop in the loss ratio towards the end of the year. And this has to do, yeah, with some
volatility, but that has to do also with the fact of when the actuaries are doing also their
review, their true-ups and you see there is more stability throughout the year compared to
what we saw in 2017. So I will say there is nothing to read into that.
One thing that we are looking, so if I just had to go into the details, it's the development
on the property portfolio in Spain, but here we are speaking of a €400 million to €500
million portfolio. There were some weather-related losses in 2018, but also within there is
more than that, but we need really to go into the details. Otherwise, on a macro level, I
don't see any reason to look at the 2018 numbers to the last quarter and infer from that
that there is a deterioration on the overall book.
And there was another question?

A - Oliver Bäte
Claims inﬂation. I will say, no, we don't see a lot of claims inﬂation. And now clearly if you
are in Turkey, you are going to have a diﬀerent view, you're going to say there is a huge
claims inﬂation. If you are in the UK, you might have a slightly diﬀerent view because of
the pound depreciation, there might be some more claims inﬂation. But in general, when
we look at markets like Germany or we look at Italy or we look at France, we don't see
necessarily claims inﬂation. Also, when I go through the diﬀerent entity, you might see
sometimes an increase in severity, not necessarily because of claims inﬂation, it can be
because of other reason, but usually you see a decreasing frequency. So we don't see
markets where you have at the same time an increasing frequency and severity. So usually
you might see one thing going up, the other one going down. So there is not much
pressure from overall claims situation on our numbers.

Page 27 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

We'll take our next question from Johnny Vo with Goldman Sachs.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. Thank you. Just in the past, Giulio, you spoke about capital management in
terms of three silos – solvency, liquidity and leverage. I mean, clearly, the solvency looks
very strong. You've articulated that the liquidity three OEs in the Life business had
diﬃculties with remittances. And I've noticed also that the leverage ratio has moved up
quite substantially over the years. So, can you comment on those three silos?
Also I just saw a headline on Bloomberg saying that Allianz may slow buybacks to make
small acquisitions. Can you talk about the interplay between the size of deal and the
impact on potential buybacks in the future? And ﬁnally, just in terms of M&A, internal
capacity, in the past you had said you may have €10 billion of M&A capacity. Could you
just give an update of where you are with that capacity given the three silos? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. So, the three components are clearly relevant. It's about the solvency, the liquidity
and the leverage ratio. Nothing has changed on the three components. Also, when you
look at the leverage ratio, it went up, but just because the annualized gains went down. If
you look at our debt position has not changed in 2018 compared to 2017, so the only
reason why the leverage ratio went up is because of the movement of the IFRS equity, but
not because we have increased our leverage position. So, from that point of view, our
philosophy has not changed. And with the diﬀerent market environment, our leverage
ratio would have been 26% instead of 27%. And by the way, I feel pretty good at 26%,
27%. That's absolutely a good level of – a reasonable level of leverage.
On the M&A, yeah, the €10 billion, I always say €10 billion is potentially there, but that's
also a stretch. I also said that's technically possible. I'm not so sure we will go for a €10
billion acquisition where we use only cash in that, but that's technically a possibility. I'm
not so sure I understood your question about the buyback and the deal size and if a
buyback is – is it sort of announced in the quarter.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yeah. Sorry. That was just the headline on Bloomberg saying that Allianz may slow a
buyback to make small acquisitions. So, if you...

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

No.

Page 28 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

A - Oliver Bäte
No, no, Giulio said – he also said we can do the buybacks and the bolt-on acquisitions and
we have no issue.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

FINAL

Must be my Italian accent is misunderstood.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Italian accent. It's diﬃcult to understand.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Because I could not even understand the point.

A - Oliver Bäte
All right.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Johnny. Any more questions?

Operator
We do have a few more in the queue if you'd like to take them.

A - Oliver Bäte
Okay then. Let's take three more questions, okay, and then (01:33:40) and then we call it a
day.

Operator
Okay. Great. Our next question comes from William Hawkins with KBW.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hi, guys. Thank you very much. I'll be quicker on start one next time. Can you just talk
again about the sensitivity of your Solvency II ratio to rating migration? From my
understanding, that's something which is eﬀectively completely ignored on slide B7. So,
with regards to your Solvency II ratio, what work have you done to think about the
scenario analysis with the rating migration and what would be the impact? That's kind of
question one.

Page 29 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

And for the sake of your time, just quickly, on slide B35, in terms of your earnings per
share growth, you in the past couple of years have realized gains and impairments is a
normal level that we should be plugging in as part of your earnings per share growth or
could the normal rates be higher or lower?

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I'll start with the second one. I would tell you when you look at the below-the-line item, so
we're not just focused on realized gains and impairment, I would also take into
consideration for restructuring. I would tell you that on the below-the-line items, you can
work with an assumption of about minus €1 billon, right, which will be more or less the
average between what we had this year and what we had in 2017. So that could be your
working hypothesis on how you look at the below-the-line items.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the question regarding the solvency ratio sensitivity and the impact of credit
migration, we did some exercise and which in my opinion is conservative. So, because in
reality, it's aggressive because we said that if we have one notch rating migration, the
Solvency II ratio of Allianz Group would drop by 9 percentage point. To me, it looks like
maybe it's a little bit aggressive. I think it might be a little bit worse than that. But the point
is, if you ask me, that's not really a meaningful sensitivity and that's the reason why we
decided to show in page A12 what would happen to our solvency ratio if we have a crisis
like the 2018 crisis, which was a credit crisis. Because if we just look at the one notch rating
migration, everything doesn't change or honestly speaking, there's really not a big deal.
But we know that we have really a one notch rating migration, there is no way that equity
markets are not going to go down, there is no way that the bonds is not going to become
negative.
So we need to start doing all this kind of exercise and we believe that what we are
showing on page A12 it's a fair representation what would happen in a major credit crisis,
which we saw, by the way. That's the beauty. We have seen that just 10 years ago. And so,
that's how we will look into this kind of question. So we are not ignoring the point. I'll tell
you even more that we set our management ratio based on the scenario. We set our
liquidity position that we want to keep at the holding level based on this scenario. So,
that's part of our management thinking and of our risk management appetite. And that
indeed is much more severe than just saying one notch less credit rating and everything
else is unchanged.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

That's helpful. Thanks, Giulio.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

You're welcome.

Operator
And we have a question from Michael Haid with Commerzbank.

Page 30 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Just one question. In P&C insurance, the price
increases on the renewals, the 1.2% after the nine months period and 1.4% for the full year,
which implies an acceleration of price increases in the fourth quarter, can you say a little
bit about where these price increases came from? And is there a trend somewhere, a new
trend or new initiatives, anything like that?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, we see a little bit of an improvement compared to what we had reported a few
months ago. And this is mostly driven by a little bit Australia, then Italy, but especially
AGCS. I mentioned AGCS before that there is a little bit of a turning in the market. Now,
there is no doubt and that is also not immaterial now, we need to see how signiﬁcant it's
going to be, especially in the sense of the length, right. Because if you have just a little bit
of an adjustment and then rates are going to stabilize or go back pretty quickly, this is
most likely not going to add much. But if we continue to see this kind of acceleration in
the renewal rates and maybe also little bit more widespread then that mean that could be
a strong sign for the future.
Now it's a little bit too early, but deﬁnitely we see signs. As I told you before, I had a
meeting going line by line with the management team of AGCS and you can see that
there is some sign of strengthening. To call it a hardening, not yet, it is attempt of
hardening. And I think that it might turn quickly all scenario hardening.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

And what is happening in Italy?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

In Italy, it's happening that we try to get a little bit more pricing strength and we had a
good growth and we are happy and now we also see that we can push a little bit stronger
on the rates.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
And we'll take our ﬁnal question from Ebrahim Saeed with Deutsche Bank.

Q - Ebrahim Saeed

{BIO 17371020 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just a short one. With respect to the bolt-on
acquisitions you suggest, there was some speculation about Allianz looking at VIVAT in
the Netherlands. Would that sort of qualify within those bolt-on metrics that you speak of?
And then the commentary you made around leverage, and I appreciate that your debt

Page 31 of 32



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-15

stack hasn't moved, but is it fair to assume then that (01:40:06) from you this year? Thank
you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. I always say no comments, so I'm not going to comment.

A - Oliver Bäte
I always say you should not, okay, expect any issuance in the normal course of activity.
And with regard to the VIVAT, that's what you mentioned, let's put it this way. Clearly,
acquisition of that size might be bolt-on. But as usual, we don't speak about individual
companies. But, yes, any acquisition which is in the €1 billion premium, something like
that, might be a bolt-on acquisition.

Q - Ebrahim Saeed

{BIO 17371020 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Oliver Bäte
Thank you very much for spending the time with us and for your strong support. Thanks to
all people and, by the way, thanks to the team here. And this was Giulio's ﬁrst year. Thank
you very much. Great job.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. Goodbye to everybody. Have a nice weekend. Thanks for joining.

Operator
And once again, ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. We appreciate
your participation today. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 32 of 32

