Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

Q2 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariolq, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Oliver Bate, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results of
the Second Quarter 2019. For your information, this conference call is being streamed live
on allianz.com and YouTube. A recording will be made available shortly after the call.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to your host for today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt,
Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you, Christian. Yeah. Good afternoon from my side as well, and welcome to our
conference call. Normally, our quarterly calls are conducted by the CFO and Investor
Relations, but today, we have a treat for you. Our CEO, Oliver Bate has joined us as well.
He won't be able to stay for the entire call and that is why we start directly with him.

Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Page 1 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

Thank you, Oliver. Hello, everybody. Thank you for joining today on a day that is ugly in
the market. Good news is, Allianz is keeping it up, at least for those that are invested in
our stock. And I would congratulate those investors having -- had the right nose in this
environment. Why I'm talking to you is, number one, I missed you through the inside
series in Munich. I was in London at the time trying to understand what Brexit means. I'm
still not much smarter, but will ﬁnd out very soon. But what we are much smarter on is that
on Renewal Agenda 2.0 that we have launched in last November, Allianz is fully on track.
And I would like to have you look through the quarterly numbers and think about what we
have said in the strategy session and how we are keeping to deliver on those and keep an
eye on the delivery against this strategy.
What we told you is that, the environment is going to get very ugly; that the trade dispute
is not going to go away; that will result in rates going further down. And now we have the
bond even at 30 years being negative, and we are less than half of where we were a year
ago. And because we knew that, we have started to tighten the ship early and make sure
that we are prepared for the storms that are ensuing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let me talk about that in a little bit, and then I hand over to Giulio. The ﬁrst one is
that, we have made sure we transform our Life business as we've done the last three years
and keep on changing the business mix on the new business side and maintain discipline
on capital deployment on the in-force. Giulio is going to talk about how we given a
declining investment income are strengthening the earnings power of Allianz
nevertheless, because we are growing market share not just in Germany and the United
States, but also in Asia at very, very good levels of proﬁtability despite the massive decline
in interest rates.
And we're going to continue to pursue growth in other earnings sources than just
investment income and making sure capital is being redeployed where it does meet our
objective. As we stand today, we have very strong return on invested capital. As many of
our competitors are ﬂeeing the Life business, we are growing and we are improving
proﬁtability. That is not to be seen in many other places. The second one is the Asset
Management business. After the turnaround of PIMCO numbers in the past, we are back
to full strength. Many of you had questions about the fourth quarter of last year on some
of the ﬂows. I think PIMCO is demonstrating extremely strongly that we will strive in very
diﬃcult markets, diﬀerent than other companies can do, and you see that in our earnings.
So the businesses that are most exposed to capital markets are showing enormous
strengths. That then leads us to Property-Casualty where we have had very good result
despite the ensuing headwinds in commercial lines. And I want to be very clear, the
global market and commercial lines are not yet where they are, there are signs of rate
hardening, but we need to look through short-term expectances, there is work ahead of
us for all of us in the industry to make the proﬁtability rise. Allianz is doing exceptionally
well on retail, both in margin and in growth, and we have some further week -- work to do
on commercial lines, which means there is signiﬁcant performance uptick that we can gain
for our shareholders in driving the commercial lines business forward. But that will take
time and hard work, and we're on it.

Page 2 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

In the meantime, Allianz is focusing on controlling the levers that do not depend on
ﬁnancial markets to go well; very importantly, trying to grow organically our business and
being extremely disciplined on the productivity. So we have had yet another quarter we
are delivering on productivity gains, and we are not letting it go. And we will deliver on
that in an environment where that is one of the key levers, next to underwriting discipline
and risk controls on the investment side to make sure that we stand when others will get
weaker.
Now last comment I'll make sure in terms of transformation delivery, we are not just
delivering extremely strong results in this really diﬃcult environment, we're continuously
working on transforming the business. And that then allows us to also grow inorganically. I
would like to reiterate the point that we are not planning any large acquisitions anytime,
we're sticking to bolt-on, very well priced acquisitions. In diﬀerence to many other
people, we don't need -- see and feel the need to buy something large to camouﬂage
problems that we may have strategically, and that will remain a discipline for the time to
come.
Now we will guard your capital very carefully. So as we have said in the past, if we cannot
reinvest the capital into our businesses for proﬁtable growth, be it organic or inorganic,
we will not sit on it. Now given that the times are getting tougher, we'll make a very
careful trade-oﬀ between capital usage and how we invest it. I think it's time to invest it in
the core business and not in overpriced assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

And these are the message for today. Thank you for your trust. And with that, I hand over
to Giulio.

Giulio Terzariolq
Thank you, Oliver. And I like now to go -- good morning and good afternoon to
everybody. I like now to go into the results for the second quarter. But before we go into
the results for the second quarter, I'm going to give you a view on the very good results,
as Oliver was saying, for the six months.
So if you move to Page six -- page three of the presentation, you can see that we have
been able to grow our revenue by 6%, and the growth in revenue was driven both by
Property-Casualty and Life/Health. So again, in Property-Casualty we had a growth rate
which is in excess of the 3% we were used to see a few years ago. The operating proﬁt is
also following a nice increase with 6% plus or EUR367 million of additional operating
proﬁt. All segments have contributed to the increase in operating proﬁt. And then, when
you look at the net income, it's up 7%. And if you do the calculation of the earnings per
share, we are up double-digit compared to the six months of 2018. So a very strong story.
When we look at the KPIs, on the operational KPIs, you can see that our combined ratio is
stable in 94%. And what is also very important, our productivity gains are coming through,
and we were able to improve our expense ratio in the ﬁrst six months of '19 versus the six
months of '18. So that's an additional improvement. Then on the new business margin,
you can see that we have been able to keep the new business margin stable, and this

Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

combined with an increase in production has lead to an increase in value of new business
of 17%.
And then ﬁnally, on the asset investment side, you can see that the net inﬂows are very
strong. Over the six months, we had about EUR40 billion of net inﬂows. This is mainly
driven by PIMCO, but I think the number is very, very strong. So all in all, it doesn't matter
whether you look at the revenue, whether you look at the operating proﬁt or the net
income or the operational KPIs, I think there is a very strong picture.
As we go to page ﬁve, you can see a similar kind of good picture also for the second
quarter standalone. On the revenue side, again, we had a positive growth of 4%, also
driven by Property-Casualty and Life/Health. When you look at the operating proﬁt, you
can see an increase over the level of 2018. Here, the increase is mostly driven by the Life
business. I'm going to come back on this one. But when you look at the other segments
on aggregate, we also see a lot of stability. And just to keep in mind, the level of EUR3
billion over 2018 was already a very good level. So again, a very good quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then on the shareholder net income, you can see that we have an increase in
shareholder net income of 13%. This is a consequence of the increase in operating proﬁt.
Also, as you are going to see later, the nonoperating result was a little bit better
compared to last year. And ﬁnally, the tax rate has been lower compared to the tax rate in
2018. So all in all, with EUR3.2 billion of operating proﬁt and EUR2.1 billion net income, I
think we have a very strong picture also for the second quarter standalone.
At page seven, we are showing the shareholder equity and the Solvency II capitalization.
I'm going to focus on the Solvency II capitalization, because that's the most relevant
metric. As you see, our Solvency II declined from 218% to 213% in the second quarter. The
main driver for the decline is the change in interest rates. Also, I would say that the credit
spread movement, there is some basis risk on the credit spread movement, has also
caused a little bit of a reduction in our solvency ratio. What is important, however, the
organic capital generation is at 3%, which is a very good number because this is
eventually the number which is going to stay and support the capital generation moving
forward.
One comment on the sensitivity. As you see the sensitivity in the downward direction had
been pretty stable compared to the sensitivities that we had in Q1. The only sensitivity
which is now stronger is the sensitivity up to interest rates where we have now a plus 6
percentage points. The point is, as we go down the curve, the interest rate convexity, if
you want, is changing. So this to a certain degree also kind of normal, but we need just to
be prepared, this sensitivity can change over time as we are moving up and down the
curve.
At page nine, I know you're always very interested in the topic of the Solvency II
generation. I can be a little bit more speciﬁc. As you see on pretax and pre-dividend basis,
the organic generation was plus 7%. If you take out the dividend and the taxes, we are
back at 3%, which is pretty much in line with our expectation. On the market, you can see,

Page 4 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

on a pretax basis a minus 8 percentage point of movement. After tax is minus 7
percentage point.
And here, again, I want to stress the following. First of all, we have a movement of the
interest rates for the quarter, which was between 30 and 40 basis points. So there was a
strong movement of the interest rates. The second point, our -- when we show the equity
sensitivity, we are showing the equity sensitivity assuming that the nonpublic equity are
going to move to the same level as the public equity. This is not necessarily the case, so
eventually, our sensitivity then can -- actually, we can see a diﬀerent results depending on
the movements of the nonpublic equity.
And then also something to consider is, our portfolio has higher quality, if you want, from
a bond point of view. We are more focused into, let's say, bonds compared to BTP
compared to TEME [ph] the EIOPA portfolio. So for example, we saw a widening of the
volatility that narrowed when the volatility adjusted. But when you look at what happened
to the spreads, you can see that in the case of the bonds, there was a widening of the
spreads. In the case of the BTP, on the long duration, there was a narrowing. When you
look at the short duration of the BTP, there was indeed also sort of widening. So there is
some basis risk there that can also cost a little bit of solvency.

Bloomberg Transcript

The ﬁnal point is, we have repurchased one subordinated loan in Q3, and the impact of
the purchase of the subordinated loan was about 1%. So all in all, a 5% decline. But I will
say, under the market condition, totally explainable and we are very comfortable with the
level of Solvency II that we have now, and this is by no means any sort of restriction to our
capital ﬂexibility.
Moving to page 11. We come here to the segments, and we start, as usual, with the growth
rates for our P&C entity. As I said before, a good growth rate of 4.3%. When we look by
the way, the growth rate for the six months, 50% of the growth is coming from price and
50% is coming from volume. If you then look in isolation to the second quarter, you can
see there is even an acceleration or the improvement coming from price, and that's
especially because of the development in the industrial lines.
When you look at the change on renewal, we are pretty stable positive. Especially in the
case of AGCS, we see a strengthening of rates. We saw this to a certain degree already in
Q1. But deﬁnitely, we see more momentum in Q2, and we expect this momentum to
continue also in the second part of the year.
When you look then in the single entity, I would say, we had a very good dynamic of
growth in Germany, in Italy, and generally you see plus signs. The only exception is Spain,
but in Spain, we are very focused on the proﬁtability. Especially in the new business, we
are kind of cautious. But in general, again, I would say, a good picture on the growth side,
and this is now the ﬁrst quarter that we have good numbers on the top line.
Coming now to page 13. We show here the operating proﬁt, which has decreased by 5%
compared to the prior period. This is driven by the investment income. When you look at
the combined ratio, the combined ratio is more or less stable compared to the prior level.
Page 5 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

What we see here is a higher load from natural catastrophe of about 60 basis points. Also,
we see there is a lower runoﬀ of 90 basis points. But oﬀsetting these two developments,
we see a more benign impact from the weather-related losses.
Also, we see some improvement in the pure attritional loss ratio. And then, more
important, we see a further improvement in the expense ratio. So all in all, I would say, a
good picture for the second quarter with an improvement of the attritional basis -- the
attritional loss ratio and also a slight improvement in the expense ratio.
In this case, I would like also to spend a second on page 14, because I believe that when
we see the numbers, sometimes it's better to view -- to look at the numbers on the six
months basis. That can be more telling. And when we look at the development of the
combined ratio for the six months, you can see an improvement of 2 basis points.

Bloomberg Transcript

And here, we see that the net cash has been positive compared to the development of
last year. On the other side, the runoﬀ is 50 basis points lower. So the two things oﬀset
each other. On the attritional loss ratio, we are pretty much ﬂat and then we see an
improvement also for the six months on the expense ratio. So again, a sign that also in the
six months picture, we are making progress on our priority to bring the cost ratio down.
With that, let's move to page 15. And here, we show the operating proﬁt and the
combined ratio for the selected entities. I will say, we had good results -- very good results
indeed in Allianz Germany. This might look counterintuitive because you see 95.6%, but
you have to consider that we had a 7.7% load from natural catastrophe. Indeed, I will say
that almost -- the only real natural catastrophe that happened in the second quarter, more
or less, happened here in Germany. So if you adjust the numbers for the extra load on
natural catastrophe, I will say the performance in Germany is very good.
In the case of France and Australia, you see a movement compared to the prior period.
This is more a result of normalization compared to either high level of last year or
extremely low level of last year. And then, as you go into -- down the list, you can see in
Spain, we have a signiﬁcant deterioration of the combined ratio. Important here to note is
the accident year combined ratio is stable and is stable at a good level of 93%. What we
see here, however, is a swing from a positive runoﬀ in 2018 to a negative runoﬀ in 2019.
But the underlying, actually, CR performance is pretty stable at 93%.
And then clearly, AGCS, it's combined ratio of 101% is a business that has a few challenges
at the moment. But we also see there is a correction coming in the rates, so there is
deﬁnitely a strong hardening. So we think that moving into 2020, 2021, we should see
better results.
And then I'd like to highlight also the outstanding performance of Euler Hermes, where
we see good growth rates and also, we see a very good combined ratio at about 80%.
And also the way these guys are managing the business in an environment which is not
necessarily easy, in my opinion, is best class. So all in all, I would say, a good picture in our
underwriting results.

Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

And with that, we move to page 17 where we show the investment results. You can see a
decline by about EUR50 million on the investment results. I would say the main -- there
are two factors. One is there is some kind of volatility that we might see on the net
harvesting, and in this case, it's primarily driven by FX eﬀect. And the other eﬀect that you
see on the interest and similar income, we got this year less dividend, especially on
private equity, compared to what we had last year. But this is more a normalization
because, last year the dividends were a little bit higher.
So I will say, all in all, in reality, stable or resilient results. And I would also point out to the
current yield, which is pretty much stable compared to the level of last year. So from a
bond point of view, from the income of the bond portfolio, we didn't see any substantial
change in the second quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, I'd like to come to page 19 where we are discussing the Life business. As you
know, in the Life business, we had at the end of the day three goals. One is to keep new
business margin of 3%. The other one is, we want to have at least 80% of our production
in capital-light products, and I believe this strategy is extremly important in this kind of
environment. And then also, we want to have a growth in the VNB. Since, fundamentally,
the margin is now going to go so much higher compared to where we are now, at the end
of the day, the growth in VNB has to come from growth in production.
And what we are showing in this slide is that, we have been able to meet in the quarter
our objectives. When you look at the growth in production, that has been 8.5%, mostly
driven by Germany Life and by the U.S.A. In a few countries like Italy and France, we had a
reduction in the production because of the unit-linked business. But fundamentally, when
you look at the total portfolio, we were able to grow our production almost on a doubledigit level.
On the preferred product, we have -- more than 80% of our production are preferred
products. And as you see, we have been able also to grow our margin by 10 basis points,
and this despite the environment being kind of challenging already in Q2.
At page 21, we are showing the operating proﬁt. And as you see, the operating proﬁt is up
about EUR 150 million compared to the level of Q2. Now here, we have a special eﬀect
coming from Allianz Leben where we changed the duration for the amortization of the
debt. We had a duration up to 20 years, and now we are extending the duration to 25
years. To calculate the EGP, the amortization of the acquisition cost, so by deﬁnition, when
you're extending the duration, you're going to add more proﬁt into your model, and this
is going to lead to a diﬀerent DAC depreciation. So this is a special eﬀect that we had in
Allianz Life to recognize the longer duration of the products.
If you adjust the numbers for the one-oﬀ, we go back more or less to the -- exactly, I
would say, to the level of the operating proﬁt of last year. So the operating proﬁt will be
EUR1.075 billion. If you take our outlook for the year of EUR4.2 billion divided by four, that
will be EUR1.05 billion. So I would say, even adjusted for the one-oﬀ, we are well on track
to achieve our outlook and the second quarter has been a conﬁrmation of this.

Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

And with that, we can move to page 23. Here, we are showing, as usual, the value of new
business, new business margin and operating proﬁt for the diﬀerent entities. On the value
of new business, I'd like to highlight that we achieved double-digit growth in the value of
new business mainly because of the increase in production.
But as I was pointing out before, we were able to increase also the new business margin.
The reason why we have been increasing the new business margin is mostly due to mix.
And then if you go back a couple of page, you're going to see that we have a higher mix
in capital-eﬃcient products, and the capital-eﬃcient products had a higher new business
margin compared to the products in other -- at least in the savings or unit-linked.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the operating proﬁt side, clearly, you see a nice growth at Life U.S.A. This is mostly
driven by the impact of the change in DAC. You see also nice growth in Asia Paciﬁc where
we don't have the drag from the legacy book in Taiwan anymore. And then you might see
a couple of minor signs, but these are related mostly to lower realized gains in the second
quarter compared to the realization in the second quarter 2018. So all in all, again, a
strong operating proﬁt for the second quarter.
And then at page 25, the gross investment margin is stable, but the policyholder
participation, the proﬁt sharing is up. So this leads to an investment margin which is 3
basis points lower compared to the level of last year but is ﬂat compared to the level that
we had in Q1. So what is important here is that the gross investment margin, which is the
diﬀerence between the current yield and the technical guarantee, this margin is stable. So
as the current yield are coming down, also the guarantee are coming down. And then
clearly, we can credit more or less to the policyholder, and this can lead to a higher or
lower investment margin.
I want to point out that we had changed for 2019 the guidance from 80 to 85 basis points
of investment margin to 75 to 80 basis points just to recognize that, in this moment, we
have a higher credit into the policyholder, especially in Allianz Life. But this is not a
change to the guidance of our operating proﬁt, so we stick clearly to our outlook for 2019
and also, clearly, we stick to our outlook for the future.
And the reason is that we have also other proﬁt sources, which are clearly getting more
and more important. And also, I will say we see also a little bit of a higher growth in the
amount of business, so this is also creating additional proﬁt. So change in the guidance
on the margin doesn't mean that we are changing the guidance on our expectation for
the proﬁtability of the business.
And with that, I'd like to go into Asset Management where we have also a very good story.
As you see at page 27, we have about EUR1.6 trillion of assets under management. I'm
referring here only to the third-party assets. You can see also nice dynamic on net ﬂows.
Especially at PIMCO, you can see EUR23 billion of ﬂows in the second quarter. We had
also substantial inﬂows in the ﬁrst quarter. So I will say the ﬂows dynamic at PIMCO is very
good. In the case of GI, we see some outﬂows, but I will say they are kind of moderate.
And when you put PIMCO and GI together, the ﬂow situation in Asset Management is very
healthy.

Page 8 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

Also, we had beneﬁted from the change in the market value of the assets because interest
rates have gone down. So as we always think about the impact of interest rates and we
think about the negative impact that lower interest rates might have in, for example, the
Life side, on the other side, we need to recognize that, that can also create additional
value in Asset Management because we have a higher asset value. So all in all, I will say,
good ﬂows, favorable market condition from an Asset Management point of view, leading
to record third-party assets under management, which is also something which can help
as we go into the second part of 2019.
At page 29, the revenue, broadly ﬂat compared to the level of last year. Indeed, if you
exclude the performance fees, a little bit higher compared to last year. Once you include
the performance fees, which went down a little bit, then the revenue is slightly negative.
But overall, I will say, a good result on the revenue side, too.

Bloomberg Transcript

And when we look at the margin, you can see that the margin at PIMCO is 0.7 basis points
lower. This is driven by the acquisition of Gurtin, and also, there was a slight change in
business mix between retail and institutional. But fundamentally, we are speaking of small
movements, and in the case of AGI, you see even an improvement compared to the level
of the second quarter of 2018. So I will say, fundamentally, also from a margin point of
view, we see rather stability. We don't see any signiﬁcant change compared to the prior
period.
At page 31, the operating proﬁt is ﬂat if you adjust for the FX eﬀects. Here, we need to
consider, however, that it's ﬂat despite lower performance fees. So the performance fees
are, by nature, a little bit volatile. The point is with an operating proﬁt of about EUR700
million for the quarter, I think the line of business has performed very, very nicely.
And in general, you can also see that the cost to income ratio is going down. This is
mostly driven by AGI, but also the cost to income ratio of PIMCO is very good with 57.5%.
So I will say, good ﬂows, stable margin and also a nice operating proﬁt of about EUR700
million.
With that, to page 33. Our corporate segment is also improving, and here, you see an
improvement of the operating proﬁt of about EUR60 million. Half of the improvement is
driven by better results at our IT company, providing internal services for our operation.
The name is Allianz Technology. So we have better results there. And also, we have better
result on the investment income because we -- diﬀerently from the situation in PropertyCasualty, we got here more dividends compared to last year. So all in all, a good
development also on the -- in the corporate segment.
At page 35, just a few comments on the nonoperating items. As you see, they are better
compared to last year by about EUR90 million. If you look at the numbers, the realized
gains net of impairment are below last year. But on the other side, last year, we had a
negative impact due to the transaction in Taiwan, and also, the restructuring expenses are
a little bit lower this quarter compared to what we had in the second quarter 2018. So all
in all, I will say, a little bit of an improvement, especially driven by the fact that we didn't
have the impact like in last year from the Taiwanese transaction.

Page 9 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

On the tax rate, we see an improvement of 3 percentage points. And here, we have a
couple of eﬀects. First, we have an increase in deferred taxes. And the second point is
also, we have a release of reserve for tax uncertainty. So when you adjust the eﬀective tax
rate for these two impacts, then we will be at 25%, which is at the lower end of our range.
But all in all, good operating proﬁt, better nonoperating items and lower tax rates are
leading, as I was saying before, toward 13% increase in our net income.
And with that, I come to the last slide. Again, strong results for the quarter and, I will say,
strong results for the six months. In Property-Casualty, we are making progress on
improving the expense ratio. In Life/Health, we saw, again, double-digit in VNB. In Asset
Management, we are seeing positive net ﬂows for the ﬁrst quarter, for the second quarter
and also, in reality, for -- the July month has been positive. And so all in all, we have a
strong position at the half of the year. So at this point in time, we are clearly conﬁrming
our outlook for the remainder of the year.
And with that, I would like to welcome your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

(Operator Instructions) Our ﬁrst question comes from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux.
Please go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I'll try and limit myself to three questions. First one was on the
expense ratio. I mean the obvious question is whether that's fully sustainable. It's
obviously a very strong number. But I guess, I mean, even stronger -- on an absolute
basis, I mean, on a relative basis, it's perhaps even stronger given that a lot of your peers
are sort of seeing expenses creep up, largely through the acquisition expenses. I know
you can't comment on those, but -- as well as the absolute ratio, I'm just wondering
whether -- if you can say whether you're sort of immune from those industry trends?
Secondly, on the Life investment margin, I take all your comments, Giulio, and I discussed
it with IR this morning as well. But I guess there's a bit of a change in message between
Q1 and Q2. And I'm just wondering, is there anything in particular that's happened that
sort of caused a slightly higher policyholder participation and forced you to change that
guidance? And I'm hoping you can add maybe some comments about where we should
expect it to go beyond 2019?
And then ﬁnal one is on Allianz Technology. I guess we had very good results last quarter,
and I came away from the Inside Allianz Series thinking that, that was maybe a little bit of a
one-oﬀ. But you've delivered again, and the investment result is also looking quite
sustainable. So I'm sure you're expecting the question, but is it time to revisit the outlook
for the corporate segment going forward? Or are these genuine sort of one-oﬀ results?
Thanks a lot.

Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Okay. Thank you for your questions, Peter. Maybe I'll start from technology. It's not a oneoﬀ, so we expect technology to run better this year compared to what we saw in the past.
So I will say the performance we are seeing at technology is also more or less in line with
our expectations. In the sense of changing the outlook for the corporate segment, I will
say, I don't do that, but if -- you are free to do that, if you want. But for the time being, I
will keep the outlook at the same level. This shouldn't be a huge surprise if we are going
to be better than our outlook of EUR900 million at the end of the year. Now for the time
being, I'd like just to keep the numbers stable, but deﬁnitely, the trend that we see in the
corporate segment is going the right direction.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the investment margin, yes, it's a little bit of a change in what we said before, but I will
say we had already kind of anticipated that's the measure that we need to always take a
look. I will say what has changed. One could just say that we had 19 basis points in Q1 and
we see 19 basis points again in Q2. So when you see that we are sticking to the 19 basis
point, then there is a point where you're going to say this is not going to necessarily
revert. And I tell you, even more, it's not even needed, a reversion, because we are
anyway conﬁdent we can get to our operating proﬁt also with this kind of investment
margin.
What is happening anyway, especially in the U.S., we see a lower investment margin
compared to what we had before, and this is a combination of two things. First of all,
because of the tax reform, we can do lower spreads and still get to the same kind of IRR
after tax. And clearly, how much of this, let's say, tax reform beneﬁt are we keeping for us
and how much are we giving to the policyholder, this is something that we can somehow
adjust also based on market condition. But there is a little bit of that point that with a
lower margin, we can still get to the same kind of returns that we expect to have on an
after-tax basis in the United States.
The second point is also as rates are going down, there is always a little bit of a catch-up
eﬀect. You need to change your products, your crediting ratio, you are always catching up
a little bit. So this is also something that can, in the short run, cost some basis point in
investment margin. But all in all, I will say we are feeling pretty conﬁdent about the level of
proﬁtability that we have in our Life segment right now.
The last point was on the expense ratio. I will look at the six months because every time
you look at a quarter, I would say it's a little bit too limiting. When you look at the six
months, we are at 27.6%. And we said that we want to be below 28%, so I will say that it's
very likely that we are going to be below the 28% threshold by the end of the year. And
your question about sustainability, absolutely, this is supposed to be sustainable. In
reality, our intention is to bring down this expense ratio over time. So that is actually the
point. It's not the idea to decrease the expense ratio one year and then to -- maybe to
have a huge decrease in expense ratio one year and then maybe to go back up. I -- our
idea is to bring it consistently down over time in a steady fashion.
And you were referring to competitors or industry trend. On the expense side, I will say
it's not so much about industry trends. It's not something like frequency or severity of
Page 11 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

claim losses. This is really a matter of how much emphasis you put on productivity, and I
can assure to you that in the last 24 months, we have become obsessed with the idea to
reduce the expense ratio. So I would say it's a matter of attitude. So we are totally
committed to bring this expense ratio down. And it looks like it's working, and I'm pretty
conﬁdent that in the future we are going to see a further reduction of the expense ratio
compared to the level that we had last year or the 28% minus that we want to have this
year.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Right. Well, thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Michael Huttner from JPMorgan. Please go
ahead, your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

I think you've covered most of your points in your introduction which is so detailed, so
thank you, Giulio. But on AGCS, low reserve release, and why -- what does the unchanged
outlook kind of imply? AGCS, I'm seriously worried because my colleague who sits next to
me covers Swiss Re, which is CorSo. CorSo, of course, has your ex-manager now running
it. And they've had a big adjustment. So whenever I hear the word adjustment refer to
something in commercial and I think, oh my gosh. I heard this is not going to be the same
scale. And I wonder if -- how you can reassure us here. And maybe you can give us
something a little bit more speciﬁc, there's a CVA thing in the U.S.?
The second point is on the low reserve release. Here, I'm guessing because I didn't do all
the math, I'm sorry, but Spain cost you EUR50 million in the quarter. So that's half of the
EUR100 million, the 80 bps lower reserve amount in the quarter. I just wondered what
other moving parts are there or what can we take away here? Is this something that's -because the underlying combined ratio is fantastic, but you worry about every moving
part.
And then in terms of operating proﬁt, if you've done EUR6.1 billion the half year, you leave
a guidance -- and here, I'm by taking the midpoint of EUR11.5 billion. It kind of implies
EUR5.7 billion for the second half, which kind of -- sorry, yes. Anyway, it kind of implies a
run rate of about 12%, something like that, lower in the second half. And here, I'm
wondering, is there stuﬀ that you're seeing particularly on the investment income side that
we should think about? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Perfect. Okay. Let's start with AGCS. I'm not so sure what kind of country manager you
were referring to, but -- okay. So talking about AGCS. In our case, I will say, ﬁrst of all,
clearly, the 101% combined ratio for the quarter is not the level that we'd like to see. So we
can start from there. Also, considering, to be perfectly honest, that we didn't have
signiﬁcant natural catastrophe in Q1 of -- in the second quarter 2019. So the starting point
Page 12 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

clearly is not the starting point we'd like to see. But the good news in the case of AGCS is
that we see a hardening of the market. And also, clearly, we are taking a stronger -- we are
reviewing in what kind of lines of business we want to be. So we are not just thinking
about price strengthening. We also think about potentially the underwriting lines of
business and making choices about the portfolio. So from that point of view, I will say
there is work to do. But a good part of the story is that, at least now, the rate changes are
going in our favor. We don't need to ﬁght against the tides anymore. This can help
deﬁnitely a lot.
I think your other question, if I understood you right, on the child abuse. We didn't -based on what happened in New York, right now, we didn't see the necessity to do any
change in our reserving. Clearly, as the New York position might extend to our state, this
might lead to a diﬀerent conclusion. But I will say that in our case, the exposure should be
-- considering the diversiﬁcation of our business, should be always relatively modest. But I
can just tell you that based on the information we have now, we didn't see the reason why
we should increase the reserve, but clearly, this assessment might change in the future.
Then your other question on the Spain situation, the runoﬀ. I can give you the number
there. If you look at the swing in runoﬀ as -- in the combined ratio of Allianz Spain, I was
mentioning this is all driven by the runoﬀ. So if you take the 7 percentage point and you
run the math based on the NPE, net premium side of the company, you have an impact
for the group of about 20 basis points. So I will say that when you look at the runoﬀ for the
six months and you run the math, you can see that you have about 20 basis points lower
runoﬀ at the group level because of the development in Spain. I think this issue is going
to go away next year. So we are not necessarily going to revert to positive runoﬀ in Spain
in 2020, but I'm pretty conﬁdent that in 2020, we are not going to see a negative runoﬀ in
Spain.
And then your last question was on the outlook for the operating proﬁt and why we are
not changing the -- our outlook. I will say when I look at the outlook, I'll always look at the
EUR11.5 billion, plus minus EUR400 million. And I will say as long as it's not completely
unreasonable, then we're going to stay within this range and don't change the outlook.
So when you have a EUR6.2 billion of operating proﬁts for the ﬁrst six -- EUR6.1 billion
operating proﬁt for the ﬁrst six months, I wouldn't say that it's unreasonable to expect that
we could be below the EUR12 billion threshold. That's a little bit the philosophy that we
are using here.
I answer your question in AGCS because I could not really understand...

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Yeah. No, sorry. AGCS, this is kind of -- it's a deeper worry simply because Swiss Re has
had such challenges on its industrial lines unit, which is just called corporate solutions.
And so I was worrying if there's something like that within AGCS. If you start
reunderwriting, do you have to take big reserve adjustments or anything like that? That's
really the background.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Page 13 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

Okay. I wouldn't expect that we should have big reserve adjustment. I could not disclose
that we might have some minor reserve adjustment, but I will be -- I will never say never
because in life, you should never say never. But I will be surprised if we won't have
signiﬁcant reserve adjustment in AGCS.

FINAL

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you so much. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. We'll now take our next question from Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. I've got three questions, please. Firstly, on
France, I wonder whether you're happy with your P&C combined ratio in France? You've
got quite a big gap to see some of your peers now. So wonder if you talk a little bit about
what's happening in the French P&C business?

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, just to come back on AGCS. Can you give us some color, please, in terms of
what you are seeing there in terms of rate momentum on diﬀerent lines since the turn of
the year? Or whether that's changed your appetite for any particular part of that business?
And then just ﬁnally, on the LV business. Could you give us some idea of what the
appetite is when you (inaudible)? And what your philosophy is going to be there in terms
of market share versus proﬁtability? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Okay. I start from France. I will say that the 97.9% combined ratio that you see for the
second quarter is clearly not the level of combined ratio we'd like to see. This said, in
France, we see large losses. So that's the driver for that performance that we are seeing
right now. And this has been, by the way, a topic also for a few quarters. So we are taking
a look into that, and especially we see a large loss in our property portfolio. So we are a
taking a look at that.
But fundamentally, I will say, we think we can deﬁnitely put action in place to bring this
combined ratio to a better place because 97.9% is deﬁnitely not the level of expectation
that we have for France. But the main reason for the numbers you are seeing is the
amount of large losses. And clearly, as usual, you need to determine how much of these
large losses is because of volatility and how much might be that we need to reﬁne the
underwriting. There was something that Oliver mentioned before. We know also that we
have some work to do in the commercial lines, and that's deﬁnitely one of the topics that
Oliver was mentioning. This will be deﬁnitely the case also for France. So I will say this is
something that we need to tackle.

Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

I'd like also to make a comment. These are also all opportunities because as you see, we
have a very strong combined ratio. And that's good sometimes to have also some area
where we have some room for improvement because these allow us also then to improve
in totality our combined ratio.
On the AGCS side, I will say we see rate increases more or less across-the-board. I would
say the only exception will be in the liability business. We see lesser rate increases.
Otherwise, you see signiﬁcant rate increases. When we put all the math together, we are
at about 6 percentage points of rate increases. And the point is how long we are going to
see these rate increases. That's, for me, the most critical factor.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then also the second question would be are we going to see inﬂation in the loss
trend or not. My expectation is that rate increases are going to go for a while. So I believe
this is the beginning of a hardening, not necessarily the end. Otherwise, the process of
the hardening will be too quick. So in general, we see a diﬀerent momentum right now,
and that's deﬁnitely going from a correction. That's the way I deﬁne what was happening
in the industrial business at the beginning of the year. Now I will say we are going to a
year of hardening from my point of view.
And then the last question was on the LV business. I will say deﬁnitely, we are going to
look for proﬁtability, especially in a situation where you are bringing two companies
together. It's not about chasing market growth or market share. That's more about
consolidating the business in a way that you create a very good franchise. And in general,
I will say we are not a strong believer that you should go for market share, market growth.
I strongly believe that if you go for market share and market growth by pricing diﬀerently,
this is a recipe for disaster. So market growth, you get there because you have better
customer service or these kind of things. And in my opinion, this happens, right? It's not
something -- so you work hard to get to a better customer service to do all the right
things, and eventually, this is going to translate into a higher market share. But that's more
the results of hard work, and this is something that is not even easy to plan, if you ask me.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Very clear.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead.
Your line...

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you very much. Giulio, can you hear me?

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Yeah.

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Yeah. Good. First of all, can you just summarize -- you talked about some of the key
points, but the 1 percentage point improvement in your combined ratio that you still need
to achieve to get to your business plan, can you just help me understand the balance now
of where that that's coming from, expenses versus claims? You just said that your expense
ratio could have further to improve. You are already, in the ﬁrst half, close to the 27.5% that
was part of your target already. So either you're going to carry on blowing through your
target or that ﬁgure is going to be normalizing? And can we get some further
improvement on the loss ratio side? So if you could just summarize for me the walk from
94% to 93% from here, that will be helpful.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then secondly, within the combined ratio, I'm sorry to come back to Spain. I know
you talked about this in the ﬁrst quarter, but I'm still a little bit confused about what
exactly has gone wrong. You talked about whether from last year deteriorating, you talked
about the motor book. So I understand sort of the facts, but I don't really understand the
why it's gone wrong in Spain. And I guess the reason I'd like to just get a bit more color
on it is so far, Allianz has been using Spain as a test case for excellence that the rest of the
group needs to learn from. And now all of a sudden, there seems to be some reserving
volatility that implicitly could point to some pricing uncertainty or whatever. So I'm just not
sure the extent to which I should be worried that the shine is coming oﬀ Spain, if you like.
And then lastly, just brieﬂy, forgive me if I misheard you. In terms of the investment
margin, to Peter's question, you talked about what's happening in the U.S. But I thought
during your prepared remarks, you talked about increasing allocation to German Life
policyholders in the investment margin. And I wondered if you could just give a bit more
detail on that because the general trend I've heard in the low-yield environment is
decreasing what you're allocating to policyholders. So how come your German Life
policyholders are earning up so lucky? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Okay. Maybe I start with the expense ratio. And -- or from the improvement of the
combined ratio, mostly come from the expense ratio, mostly come from the loss ratio? So
what we said is when you start from 2018 as a reference point, our combined ratio was
94%. Somehow in that combined ratio, we had a 4 percentage point of runoﬀ. We always
said the runoﬀ is going to go down to 3%. So at the end of the day, we need to improve
the underlying by 2 percentage points. And the idea here is that 1 percentage point
should come from the loss ratio, 1 percentage point should come from the expense ratio. I
will say as we go through the quarters and so on, you can see some movement in the
expense ratio/loss ratio. But fundamentally, I will say this is still the kind of guidance that
we have. So at the end of the day, we would expect that we're going to have an expense
ratio which is approaching the 27%. In reality, even better compared to the 27.5% that we
discussed in the Capital Market Day. So that's something that clearly we are striving to
achieve. And the rest of the improvement should come from the loss ratio. So I would say
start almost from a 95% because you want to adjust for the 1 percentage point less runoﬀ
and then assume that 1% is coming from expense ratio and the other half is coming from
the loss ratio. Is this clear? Does that answer your question?

Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Crystal clear as always. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Perfect. And then, on Spain, I will say what went wrong. As I tell you, sometimes it's
overconﬁdence I will saw. So at the end of Q4, by the way there were weather-related
claims in Spain aﬀecting the numbers. And somehow we didn't recognize the impact of
these weather related claims. Also, we have been a little bit too aggressive in the
estimation of the loss ratio for model. So these two things have led that we have been too
conﬁdent on our numbers for 2018. And now, clearly, we need to catch up on that. But as I
was saying before, the combined ratio, the accident here is 93.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I will tell you the following. I believe next year we're going to see what the numbers of
Spain are. And if I'm right and Spain is going to be back to the 93 combined ratio that we
see and there will be no negative runoﬀ. I can tell you, there will be a great story, because
at the end of day we are a company that is performing very nicely for many years.
Somehow sometimes, you can also get something out right. And if we had the ability, that
I believe we have, to go back to 93, in my opinion the story of Spain is even stronger than
before. So I will not throw the baby with the bathwater here and then start assuming that
because of what happened in 2018, now all the good things of Spain are not valid. This is
a company running at an expense ratio of below 20%. So this is something clearly that is
telling you about the quality of the company, and now we just need to ﬁx a little bit this
issue coming from last year. And then let's wait for 2020. And I really hope I'm right
because there will be really a good story to tell in just a few months.
And then your other question on the investment margin on the policyholder. I -- Because I
need to look at (inaudible). I think I would always distinguish anyway between the IFRS
logic compared to the HGB logic. So I will say the two things are not necessarily the same
also because, for example, the investment income recognition can be read diﬀerently
between the German GAAP and IFRS accounting. So from that point of view, you
shouldn't draw conclusion from HGB that you transfer into IFRS. When I look at the
investment margin of Allianz Leben in the IFRS view for the quarter, that margin was pretty
stable.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
You're welcome.

Operator
Thank you. Our next call -- question comes from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead,
your line is open.

Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi, there. Thanks. Just two for me, please, both on P&C. So AGCS, I mean, I guess there's
some concern today around performance given we're seeing two companies over the last
ﬁve years just consistently underperform in this line with commentary from management
that there's going to be a gradual correction. It never really worked until there was a sort
of big, big remedial actions taken across that book. So I guess why -- similar to Michael's
question, why is it diﬀerent for you guys? How can you give a some reassurance, I guess,
that the pricing environment is better at the moment?
And then secondly, a very quick one. Where is claims inﬂation running at the moment
across the book versus your price increases of 2.4%? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Yeah. So -- and as you said, that I would like to say that we have a combined ratio 101%, so
depends how you deﬁne success, but we wouldn't deﬁne this as being successful. So to a
certain degree, I will say we are sharing the pain that you see in the market at a diﬀerent
level. We have been seeing that, in general, over -- in the last years, we have been able to
outperform our competition. But clearly, somehow we are exposed to the same dynamic.
And I will tell you even more that sometimes you get comfortable because you are
outperforming the competition. But eventually, your combined ratio is also above 100%.
So I don't think that we are seeing anything diﬀerently from what our competitors are
seeing. We just see this at a lower level because up to now, we've been able to
outperform what our competition has done. Then we have a couple of things. In our case,
you need to consider that we had a drag out of the old FFIC business where we are now
somehow transferring -- we are doing a migration from the old system to the new system.
So this is about 1 percentage points for the combined ratio of the company. It's about 1
percentage point. So this is going to go away anyway by 2021, latest 2022. So we should
see a little bit of an improvement coming from there.
And then clearly, there is some hardening going on right now, and that's also not to be
underestimated because continuous hardening in a couple of years can lead to very
diﬀerent results. And then as I was saying before, we have put a lot of emphasis also on
looking at the portfolio, what kind of portfolio we want to keep, what kind of portfolio we
think is not structurally proﬁtable for us. And we are going to take a clear look, especially
the United States. But again, we are somehow exposed to the same dynamic. We are just
running at a better level.
On -- then you had a question, I believe, on claims inﬂation. And I think you are referring
to claims inﬂation in General. I would say that what we see in Continental Europe in -- I will
say we see this in a few markets. We see that severity model is going up a little bit, and
that's because the cost of the spare parts is going up. So we see this in Germany. We see
this also in Italy. On the other side, there are other parameters which are moving in the
opposite direction. So we don't necessarily see an increase in frequency.
So when you look at the totality, I will say there might be some pressure here and there.
But I will say, in general, the price increases should be deﬁnitely able to compensate for
this kind of pressure but maybe just a little bit more an uptake in severity this year
Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

compared to what we saw 12 months ago. But again, in general, I will say the situation is
pretty much under control.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from James Shuck from Citi. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi, good afternoon, everybody. Three questions from me, please. Firstly, Giulio, the
liability duration on the Life side, it increased by frankly a whole year actually in the
quarter year-on-year. Can you just explain a little bit about what's happening there that -to lengthen that?

Bloomberg Transcript

Second question, interested by the opening remarks from Oliver re talking about
commercial lines and the need to do more on that side of the business. Are you able to
sort of split the P&C business into how you would see it between kind of retail, maybe
SME and larger lines of business, and perhaps give some insight into the combined ratios
on those basis, please?
And then ﬁnal question, again, returning to France but more on the Life side, really.
Operating proﬁt in Life was down 18%. You talked about a lower Protection and Health
results, in particular. So just keen to know what the moving parts were within that, please?
Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Yeah. So on the liability ratio, yes. If you look, it went up. And also, now we are longer on
the liability compared to the duration we have on the asset side. Here, I will say, just the
fact of rates going down and the complexity of the liability is stronger compared to the
complexity of the assets. So we are catching up. At the end of the day, we don't want
necessarily to be short duration. That's not the position we like to have. But here, we are
constantly catching up because the interest rates are constantly going down. You need
also to consider it's not so easy to move the duration one-to-one right away. So -- but
fundamentally, this is just a consequence of rates going constantly down and our ability to
adjust the duration accordingly. There is always sort of a time lag.
On the commercial lines, I'll tell you something. So I was looking at the commercial line
proﬁtability in the diﬀerent country. And I will say when you look at commercial lines, in
general, and you look at our retail business, I could tell you it's not everyday that the
commercial lines are so much worse when you look in totality. It's maybe, I will say, a
couple of percentage points worse compared to retail, in general, the combined ratio in
commercial lines. And here, we are not speaking about AGCS. I'm speaking of France,
Italy, Germany. The point is within the commercial lines books, you might have really
Page 19 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

interesting portfolios. And we have portfolio where, honestly speaking, the combined
ratio can be even 110%. So that's the issue. And if you were to be very -- to go very
granular, and then you're going to see that somehow, we are deﬁnitely losing some
proﬁtability because of some businesses which are -- portfolio which are severely
underperforming. When you look at the commercial book, in general, if you don't go
granular, you're not going to see all this kind of disparity between retail and commercial
lines.
And the last question was about the protection. The protection side...

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yeah. Sorry. And, no -- yeah, we see a reduction in the operating proﬁt in the Life side in
France, which was driven by a lower technical result from Protection and Health?

A - Giulio Terzariolq

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. There's -- it's a deterioration of the loss ratio in Protection and Health. Just to give
you an idea, if you have a 2 percentage points, deterioration is about EUR800 million of
premium. In the quarter, this is already making EUR16 million of our operating proﬁt. So
there is a little bit of a deterioration. I wouldn't call it a trend. It's just some volatility in the
quarter.
To be more speciﬁc, anyway in -- just to give you an idea about the French book, we are
very happy with the performance, in general, in individual health. And I will say on the
corporate health, that's a book which is a little bit more challenged. But the deviation you
see here in the quarter, I will say, this is more kind of volatility -- quarterly volatility.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
You're welcome.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

First question on AGCS. We have seen others talking about not only pricing but pricing in
diﬀerent lines and areas where they want to bounce oﬀ and areas where they want to
grow. So for example, marine and aviation has been an area that a few of your
competitors have talked about falling out of. I was wondering if you could talk about mix?
And also excluding the Fireman's Fund portfolio, when do you see a return to
proﬁtability?

Page 20 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

The second question is to what extent do you think you can oﬀset some of the yield
pressure with your liquid investment strategy? And third question is just a conﬁrmation on
the Ogden rate. When you made the comment that it doesn't aﬀect Allianz, does it aﬀect
LV? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Let's start with the last one. The Ogden rates, it doesn't aﬀect Allianz, including LV. We are
also considering for LV. They have -- I'm not going to speak about LV. But in general, when
we put together our books and the eﬀect on the LV side, we get to a very immaterial
amount. And by the way, the amount is slightly positive, not even negative. But I'm clearly
considering also for the eﬀects coming from the -- at-equity consolidation of LV into our
numbers. So that's on the Ogden rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then on AGCS, I'll just tell you. So as I was saying before, we see fundamentally a
hardening across-the-board when you are asking when we are going to be at proﬁtability.
If you deﬁne proﬁtability as being below 100% combined ratio, I really hope that we're
going to be below 100% next year. So that would be deﬁnitely the idea. And personally,
I'm not giving up on the idea that we try to get to 96% by 2021. So I'm not -- I don't say we
are going to be able to get there. But personally, I'm not giving up on that idea, at least
I'm not giving up on that right now.
The drag from the U.S., I think it's pretty signiﬁcant, especially MidCorp in the U.S. We are
running with a combined ratio which is well above 100%. And so this is also something
that we need to consider, to what extent this is a business where we want to do a stronger
pruning, let's put it this way. And the issue we have in the U.S. is also an expense ratio
issue. So we are running at a very expense ratio also because of the double cost of
integration but also because the skill we have there is limited. So I will say this is deﬁnitely
an area of focus. In reality, if you run the numbers of AGCS without our U.S. business, you
get already now to a combined ratio below 100%. So that's the situation. And now by
adjusting AGCS with the U.S. business, we are below 100%.
Otherwise, from a line of business point of view, you were mentioning marine. In marine,
in this, the line of business has been performing at about 100% combined ratio for the last
years. But now we see rate increases that should bring this performance more in line with
our target. In reality, marine, we are exactly getting the rate increases that we need to get
to get to a proﬁtable place.
And then you had a third question that I'm not sure I captured. Can you repeat, please?
You have...

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

(inaudible)

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
I think, we're done, right?

Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

A - Giulio Terzariolq
I thought you had another question, sorry.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Yeah. The Illiquid (inaudible) material -- can you materially kind of change the decline in
yield through investment strategy?

A - Giulio Terzariolq
I would say there is a point where I believe you can always do something on the
investment income to try to cushion the decline in yield. But as only we were saying
before, sometimes you need to open other fronts in a sort of awards or you are going to
work a lot on technical excellence, on the productivity. So I think the idea that we are
going to ﬁght a low interest rate environment with an extremely low interest just by
changing our strategic asset allocation and getting more illiquid and getting more risk,
that would be a bad idea. There is deﬁnitely something we can do there, but I believe we
need to work on really even hard on the fundamental of the business. The good thing is
it's not new. So honestly speaking, interest rates have come down for years now. And now
we were thinking maybe they are going to stop to go down. It looks they're going down
further, but the recipe is always the same. So working on the combined ratio, working on
the right results in P&C. On the Life side, making sure that our liability matching is there,
which has been the case in -- for our in-force, making sure that we are constantly adjusting
the products to the environment, that we are constantly adjusting the crediting rates to
what we see in the market. So the recipe is always the same. So I think we have been
training over the last four or ﬁve years, and now we will continue to deploy our skill set in
this area.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon, everybody. Giulio, just one. So even in your Bloomberg interview
and in your opening remarks as well, you were talking about -- and even just now actually,
you were talking about how the low interest rates, you're -- you want to work more on the
Life new production, for example, and how to change it. But when I look at the VNB, for
instance, I mean, even in Germany, it's up 24% in Q2. In the group, it's 11% up, 2Q. But -and even over a longer term, it's up substantially, maybe even doubling in the last 8 to 10
years. I mean, how -- is there more room left to change these products' mix? And I'm
conscious that the early answer (inaudible). But is there room left? And the second topic
related to this is that is there -- I mean ultimately, the VNB will translate into proﬁts in
future, but it's based on a series of redemptions. And do you think that any of the low
interest rate or lower for longer interest rate concepts are going to challenge some of
Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

your assumptions in new business value? But just basically focusing on that area. Thank
you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Yeah. I will say the following, so clearly as you see the new business merge is holding. I
would also say that when we look at the -- when we calculate the new business margin, for
a European country, we'd always calculate the new business margin with a quarter lag. So
this quarter, we are going to use the assumption as of end of Q2. And you're going to see
that there will be -- or we expect some decline in the new business margin. We are still
going to be above 3%. But then you need to think, Okay. So maybe we're going to have a
bonds, or right now we have a bond at minus 50 [ph]. So it's considered that there was a
bond at minus 33 [ph] at the end of Q2. So you need to prepare that this situation can get
even worse.
And for me, it's also, I will say, regardless of what the model is going to tell you, there is
also a common sense kind of view. And when you see that the bond is at a level that we
have right now, I think you always want to take action to create some room before the
yield you can get and the guarantees you are giving to the policyholders. So from my
point of view when we see this kind of trajectory, it's always very prudent to look. First, we
need to take a look at the products. And if we see that somehow the economics are
diﬀerent, then we need to clearly adjust the feature. So I don't -- I didn't mean today that
we had to change the product. I meant today that we need to take a close look. And
potentially, we need to be prepared to change the products, which I believe personally
wouldn't be a problem because I -- depending on the market, you might get a diﬀerent
answer. But I believe that we can still oﬀer competitive or interesting features and still
change a little bit the level of guarantees that we are giving. So I think there is deﬁnitely
room for maneuver, and I think it's prudent clearly to take a look at the situation
considering that the rate environment is substantially diﬀerent compared to the beginning
of the year.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Can I just ask one second one on asset risk? So the -- on the -- I appreciate the liquid -illiquid asset answer. But is there -- do you think that there is more room for credit risk in
Allianz Group to oﬀset some interest rate yield pressure? It's not your focus, I know, but is
there room, do you think?

A - Giulio Terzariolq
I will say that on the margin, there might be always room. But our strategy will really more
always look into the liquidity or illiquidity spectrum as opposed to looking to additional
kind of credits, yes, getting the credit premium. I believe that again, the answer is not
going to be so much on the investment side. Again, we can use something but I believe
the answer is to be on the technical part of the equation.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Sure. Thank you very much.

Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

A - Giulio Terzariolq
You're welcome.

FINAL

Operator
Our next question comes from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

I'll do some just short ones, I think. I think Oliver was -- in his opening remarks, besides
positioning the group medium-term for low rates, reiterating that you could hit your EPS
target and near-term target despite low rates. I think just on that, I just want to judge how
much harder you have to work in the near term. What is the maturity? How much of your
non-Life bond portfolio matures in the next couple of years? Is there a skew to that? I'm
just trying to work out the degree of headwinds speciﬁcally in Non-Life from low
reinvestment rates.
The second question, mutual -- your net inﬂows were very concentrated into mutual
funds, judging from the new disclosure you've provided. Is that retail mutual funds?
Presumably, they are -- that's a fairly high-margin net ﬂow then. Maybe just clarify that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And ﬁnally, it's a very simple one. I should probably know the answer to this. When the
AGCS reports rate increases in its reported accounts, which they publish, they say plus
6.3%. But your slides say plus 4.8%. What's the diﬀerence? Thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Yeah. Okay. Starting from the Non-Life, on the Non-Life side, we are reinvesting per
annum about EUR20 billion of assets. So if you think of a 10 basis point decline in the
investment income, there will be about EUR20 million. So from that point of view -- then
clearly, this is going to roll over the period. But let's put this way. On the P&C side, if you
ask me, I will say it's manageable. So it's deﬁnitely a headwind. But I will say is that
headwind can be manageable, considering that to oﬀset a EUR50 million, let's say, lower
investment income, you need to have an improvement in the expense ratio, let's put it this
way, or 10 basis points. So that's the number. So from that point of view, I will say on the
P&C side, it's deﬁnitely manageable.
On the Asset Management side, by the way, the short term can even be an advantage. So
from that point of view, even if you get some drag on the P&C side at the beginning, that
would be compensated by better results potentially on the Asset Management side. And
in the Life side, clearly, it's a diﬀerent kind of game. In that case, you need to lower the
credit generation. You need clearly to manage the book over time. So I will say it's
deﬁnitely, if you ask me, a headwind, but I will say it's a headwind that we have been
having to a certain degree over the last three, four years. And from that point of view, I
believe we have the skill set to manage this kind of a headwind. That's also the reason
why we are still sticking to our kind of expectation for the future. And then clearly, as we

Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

go through this time, we are going to reevaluate this situation. But fundamentally, you
should have the conﬁdence that we can manage this kind of situation.
Then you had a question on the mutual funds. Yes, they are mostly retail mutual funds. So
from that point of view, usually, the margin we get on that business are higher compared
to the margin that we get in institutional account, that you always have to look whether it's
equity versus ﬁxed income because in equity, you're going to get higher margin
compared to ﬁxed income. So there are a lot of things going into that. But fundamentally,
in the retail space, we have a diﬀerent kind of margin. I tell you also more that the
diﬀerence in margin between mutual funds or institutional kind of mandates can be
diﬀerent in Europe versus the United States. So you see more of a gap sometimes in
Europe compared to the gap you might see in the United States.
And then your other question on the diﬀerence between the four point -- the numbers
that we have in the renewal versus another number that you saw. The 4.8% is more
coming almost from our accounting kind of system where the other number is more, I will
say, the real number that can be used for the rearview coming from the underwriting
about the price strength. So that's the diﬀerence between the two.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, great. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariolq

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, before we continue we have time for one last question if there's any.

Operator
Thank you. We will now take our last question from Michael Haid from Commerzbank.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Two questions. First on the Life and Health new business margin, 3.6%. You mentioned
that if you had applied the yields -- the yield environment at the end of the second
quarter, then it could still be above 3%. Can you provide a breakdown of what happened - what would happen to the new business margins to -- of your various types of products
on page 19, so Protection and Health, unit-linked and so on, the -- especially the
guaranteed savings and annuities, 2.3%? Where would that be in this current interest rate
environment?
Second question on the low interest rate environment. I assume many ﬁxed income
securities you have in your portfolio currently trade at a negative yield. Probably it makes
sense to sell them before they mature. So what should we think of realizing capital gains
from this -- in this year? Should we expect some more to come? And how would that
aﬀect your net proﬁt? Should we think about some compensating items? These are my
two questions.

Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Yeah. So on your ﬁrst question about the new business margin, how to split it in the
diﬀerent buckets, I -- we did a good -- so I didn't look at assets in this way. But I can tell
you eventually, the drop is coming both from the guaranteed savings and annuity and
from the capital-eﬃcient product because I wouldn't see the unit-linked moving much
because in reality, you get a lower -- if you want a lower projected run rate, to say.
However, the discount is also going down. So I would expect that on the guaranteed
savings and annuity, you see it at now 2.3%. The number could go below 2%. And in the
case of the capital-eﬃcient product, I would expect that we are going anywhere to be
above 3%, but that might be the moment more or less consistent with the 3.6% becoming
3.2%. So we expect potential rate to be stable. I would expect even to go up potentially
because you have lower interest rates. Unit-linked with guarantees also to be fairly stable
in capital-eﬃcient product, I would say we are going to get below the 3.5% I would
expect. And in the case of the guaranteed savings and annuity, I would expect that we are
going potentially to be below 2%. So that will be my...

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yeah. Below 2%.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Yeah. Below 2%. The guaranteed savings and annuity, does that basically look like
Germany or what is it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariolq
It's mostly Germany where we have also -- it's not necessarily group Life, but it's mostly
Germany. Then we have also something in France, and then we have more blocs here and
there. But it's basically Germany, deﬁnitely a big chunk, and then we have also France.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Then the other question about selling bonds. I'm not the Chief Investment Oﬃcer here, so
I would say I leave this to the Chief Investment Oﬃcer. As a CFO, I will say we are
matching our liability. If you start selling the bonds, yes, you create realized gains, but
then you have a lower income going forward. So from that point of view, I would say that
selling bonds, at least for an insurance company, might not be the best action. If you're
clearly a trader, you have a diﬀerent -- you have a view that interest rates can just go up
from here. Then you might decide to sell bonds. But in our case, I think we need to stick
to our asset-liability kind of matching. In reality, this makes the diﬀerence. The fact that we
have been buying the bonds, and these bonds are there producing a nice current income
to match our liability, this makes a diﬀerence compared to somebody who's going to sell - I don't know, whatever you do, you go short, you go wrong. And then you end up maybe
making the wrong bet, and then you have a problem down the road. So I think we stick to

Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

our approach, which is asset-liability management. And we are not going to speculate on
the direction of interest rates.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

FINAL

Can you say how much of your -- how many of your bonds currently trade at negative
yield?

A - Giulio Terzariolq
I don't know, but I would expect that the entire German bonds -- okay, we have all the
bonds. It's going to be below. And I will say -- if you give me a second, I can even tell you
how much bond we had. Yes, we had around -- at the end of the year, for example, we
had about EUR30 billion of bonds. That's on sovereign. So this is below, for sure, because
everything is below. I will say French bonds, we had about EUR40 billion. That's almost
also below. Slowly, slowly, I would say, Italy is the only one that's still positive. Slowly,
slowly, it's going to be a risk-weight, too. So I would say there are a signiﬁcant number
now that they are trading below the negative yield, deﬁnitely. So at the corporate bonds, I
think they are still at positive yield. But on the government side, you see easily EUR70
billion, EUR80 billion of bonds below the yield -- at negative yield.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariolq
Okay. All right.

Operator
Okay. At this time, I would like to hand the call back over to you, Mr. Schmidt, for any
additional or closing remarks.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you. Yes, this concludes our call for today. Thanks to all of those who have joined us
today. We wish you a very nice weekend and for some perhaps even a long and peaceful
vacation. Thanks and goodbye.

Operator
This concludes today's conference call Thank you all for your participation. You may now
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
Page 27 of 28



personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2019-08-02

Page 28 of 28

