Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

Assicurazioni Generali SpA Annual Shareholders Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Cristiano Borean, Group CFO
Gabriele Galateri di Genola e Suniglia, Non
Philippe Roger Donnet, MD, Group CEO & Director

Presentation
Gabriele Galateri di Genola e Suniglia
Good morning. It's 9 o'clock, we can start, like every year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Welcome here to the Shareholders Meeting of Assicurazioni Generali. And
today, in ordinary -- extraordinary sessions at the Palazzo dei Congressi of Stazione
Marittima in Trieste.
In line with the Articles of Association, I'm taking up the role of Chair. I am requiring the
assistance of a secretary in line with Article 25 of the Articles of Association. And I'll call in
Giuseppe Catalano, Secretary of the Board of Directors. The notary is required just for the
extraordinary sessions and it is not necessary for the ordinary session. I invite Mrs. Daniela
Dado to draw up the whole meet -- the whole minutes of this meeting.
This year, Assicurazioni Generali will broadcast by streaming the first part of the meeting:
my report, Philippe Donnet's report and the CFO report. And I also welcome all those
who are attending this meeting by -- in streaming.
The shareholders meeting is one of the main communication events of the company. And
we want to have the widest possible audience and providing the same accessibility in
terms of content and for our reports. This service is an excellent service for Generali at
international level. We have the simultaneous interpreting service in Italian, French and
Spanish and sign language. The streaming service is very simple and straightforward. And
we want to involve all those who have an interest in the life of our company, with the IT
tools supported by the infrastructure networks. And this approach is in line with the
Generali strategy, which is very attentive to the technology and business. And this is how
we want to involve an increasing number of retail shareholders. And because we also
have 230,000 people. And I met some of them last night.
After the report, for the formal part of the session, we'll only be -- will not be broadcasted
by streaming.
Now the first part of the meeting. And there was no quorum on the first call of the
shareholder meeting. And the second call today, 7th of May, 2019, we are holding the
Page 1 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

shareholders meeting of Assicurazioni Generali in ordinary and extraordinary call. In line
with Paragraph 3 of article 2369 of the Italian Civil Code, the shareholders meeting is
regularly held irrespective of the represented capital. At (9.03), the registration
operations who were implemented by the subjects, representative of 14.092% of the
Generali; and by proxy, 33.92%. And with a total of 47.327% of the share capital, including
the voting rights which have been suspended under the Italian Civil Code. And the
shareholder meeting is regularly held in ordinary session in second call under Paragraph 3
of Article 2369 of the Italian Civil Code and article 21.2 of the Articles of Associations.
Now the notice -- our reports. And they are about the performance the company in 2018. I
will start with my speech.
And good morning. Welcome to our shareholders who are here today or they are with us
by streaming. And as a tradition, I also welcome you on behalf of the Mayor of Trieste. I
also welcome the members of the Board of Directors that I have the pleasure to chair.
And today, their office is coming to an end. I will speak about the Board, its quality and its
effective service for the company. Finally, I wish to welcome the executives and the
colleagues of the group, in particular, the group Chief Financial Officer, Cristiano Borean,
who was recently appointed in his role.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I open the session sharing with you some introductory remarks. And we will talk about
the current social, geopolitical and macroeconomic scenario that is undoubtedly complex,
that the economic growth that is slowing down. And the international scenario is showing
2 blocks, the China and the U.S. And we've seen this morning that there is a conflict
between economic, political and -- issues.
Europe is in the middle. And -- which unable to express (common regions) on fundamental
issues such as industrial policies, defense and immigration. (Brussels) is still busy with the
complex negotiations of the -- with the U.K. over Brexit; and on the other, the renewal of
the parliament. And these 2 issues should and must give an impetus to the integration
process, without which, Europe is losing its weight and credibility at international level. But
there's also a risk to waste the progress that has been made since the Treaty of Rome in
1957.
Generali has a great trust in Europe. And we believe that some typical trends in our
continent, like the aging of the population and a productive structure supported by small;
and medium-sized enterprises, offer significant opportunities for insurers and for asset
management. However, the union must become stronger on the basis of uniform
strategies and a shared vision for the future.
I'm still positive. And in spite of everything, the global economy is growing. And the United
States will grow by 2.3%; China, over 6%; and Europe, 1%. Overall, for the world
production, the world production is expected to increase by over 3%. It is not recession.
In our continent, the average wages will remain solid and they're pushing the internal
demand. And surveys and voting preferences confirm that the European Parliament will
remain ruled by a moderate and pro-European majority. In Europe, the growth will be -- in
Page 2 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

Italy, the growth would be marginal in 2019 and there's a slowing down of our main
international partners. Intentions in global trade and our structural weaknesses weight on
the economy. But the system remains sound.
Italy is among the main net exporters at global level. First, a leader in many sectors;
second, manufacturing producer in Europe in terms of added value. And it has a busy and
successful industry with over 30,000 companies in advanced technologies. And we are
well above any other European country. And I believe that Italy's potential is still
considerable.
Let's talk about the insurance company and save -- the asset saving. And we are still -- in
the next few years, the global premium increase should continue to grow by 3%. And this
growth is due to natural factors due to the economic increase generating an increased
demand in protection. But not only that, an important component is the evolution of
insurance products: integrated, innovative solutions to respond to emerging needs in line
with the social development, like disease prevention, assistance and long-term actions.
And insurance companies will have an increasingly important role in preventing, mitigating
and covering losses which are resulting from climatic change and the natural catastrophes.
And we will see the strategy that Generali is implementing in this respect.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the global warming is resulting into a higher frequency of extreme natural events and
these losses are not covered in general. And according to the latest data, 40% only of
catastrophe damages is insured. So as for asset management, there has been a
significant growth in recent year. And this is expected to continue and drive result.
First of all, the population evolution. And as a result of the aging of the population and the
pressure to contain expenses well, households and individuals will continue to invest. And
the values from the managed assets will reach $109 billion by 2022 with an increase of
over 40% versus 2017, because the population needs to have a vision for the future in
spite of the common impression that young people are attentive to their savings and
millennials tended to save twice as much as those belonging to my generation.
So now let's talk about Generali. In this context, Generali reached a very good result. As
you have seen, in particular in 2018, the group has increased the operating value and the
net profit. And it has further increased the dividends at a break -- a record-breaking level.
This performance is marked in the conclusion of (a survey), a significant transformation.
And these are -- this is evidence of the very good strategy that was adopted. In -Generali has achieved its financial restructuring in 2015 and is implemented in industrial
restructuring today. The group is more sound, more streamlined in terms of international
prices and more efficient and resistant to financial cycles thanks to a mix of products with
an added value, a better risk profile and therefore a lower capital absorption.
It is now time to reap the opportunity of increase offered by the industrial -- by the
insurers in industry. And Generali wants to do that by implementing the new strategic plan,
Generali 2021. Philippe, shortly, will talk about the main lines of this plan. And I wish to
focus and how Generali 2021 will support human resources, their needs and the quality of
life.

Page 3 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

For decades, the insurance companies implemented their social role on mutualistic
principles. (In fact), they were more focused on the technicalities of their policies than their
customers. Now the situation is the opposite. Now the digital innovation enables to create
completely different solutions, more in line with customers' needs. So in line with the
Generali 2021, the company will define modular solutions, flexible, simple and connected
solutions aimed at improving life. Insurance will be transformed into a customized system.
And individuals and companies will have the necessary flexibility to free all their potentials
and to drive them to safer behaviors and prevent injuries.
Now for instance, in our Life business, data analytics enables to understand more in
details the behaviors of customers, assess risks and define rates. In the motor business,
we can analyze data from the black boxes, not only to offer discounts to the most virtuous
drivers. But also to provide a useful advice on how to drive safely and to save.

Bloomberg Transcript

The new strategic plan is based on 3 pillars: profit growth and capital management and
financial streamlining. Innovation and digital transformations are enabling factors that have
been identified, like the human resources and the commitment to sustainability. I will talk
about these 2 issues.
As for our employees, I want to take this opportunity to thank them for their constant
commitment. And the company will provide them with the digital skills to drive the
evolution of the organization that will be further simplified and make more agile and
efficient. And we will support a customer-based culture. And we will support leaders and
young talents through international programs. And we will support excellence and the
ability to create value. We believe that Generali will position among the companies with
the highest rate of engagement of employees by 2021. And the share plan for
employees is evidence of that. And today, you will be called upon to adopt it.
As for sustainability, this is about the strategic role we play in promoting growth,
development and the well-being of modern society. This is a huge challenge going
beyond the environment. But all this has been summed up in our Charter of Sustainability
adopted by the Board in 2017. With the new strategy, Generali 2021, we'll focus on some
specific objectives involving (well-connected) sustainability to our core business. And we
will increase premiums from products with environmental and social context, increasing
sustainable investments. And we have already started.
And we -- The Human Safety Net is expanding. This initiative was launched a year ago and
it has been -- already been implemented in 18 countries to support communities where
Generali's operating. And this is aimed to fight inequalities and support vulnerable
households. So The Human Safety Net is not just charity. We are not just giving out money.
This is a movement of people. And it is aimed at involving anybody who has an interest in
it taking part of that, starting from our colleagues. And recently, some projects were
launched on corporate volunteering. And we will also expand that in other areas.
As for the climate change, Generali is proactively implementing the climate strategy
presented in 2018. The direction is clear, we want to increase the commitment of the
group to green sectors and to dismiss carbon-based activities with a practical

Page 4 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

commitment in terms of investment and in terms of insurers. And I will also explain in the
Q&A session how I have been involved directly. And in the countries that rely heavily on
boat -- on coal, some actions have been launched in line with a proper transition to a low
environmental impact.
Before ending my speech, I would like to talk about the work that was performed by the
Board of Directors, who is here today. And we are at the end of our office. I wish to thank
the directors. And I'm saying this honestly. And this is -- these are not just kind words. And
I wish to thank the directors who have been involved in an open and exciting and useful
debate. And each word is appropriate to the work that they have done.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the Board of Directors of Assicurazioni Generali is in line with the national and
international practices in terms of company governance. And it is a gold standard, not only
in the insurance sector in particular, our government -- governance model is excellent in
terms of professional skills, commitment and independence of directors. And the Board
of Directors of Generali is an example in terms of size, diversity and the mix of skills and
competencies. I would like to underline the quality of human relations, that respecting
different opinions have enabled a shared work in the interest of the company and its
shareholders.
Finally, I would like to sum up with a maritime metaphor, the Generali journey and its
perspective. The ship of Generali in recent years needed some extraordinary
managements and renewal. This action has been implemented with discipline and vigor in
spite of the complex context. And the waters have been increasingly troubled and they
continue to be so. The result is a stronger and faster and more modern ship with a
competent and shared crew led by officers who are united and ambitions and supported
by ship owners, who are you, the shareholders and investors. Because like our founders
here in Trieste almost 200 years ago, you are able to see and support the promises and
the destinations that the Generali ship is about to reach.
Thank you for your attention.
Now the floor to Philippe.

Philippe Roger Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, you all. Dear shareholders, I thank you very much
for being here today and also because you continue trusting Generali. I am very happy to
participate as the CEO of Assicurazioni Generali in this meeting, for the first year in a -- for
the fourth year in a row. And it is my pleasure to update you about our company.
I will start with 4 key messages about the 2018 results. The first message is that the net
result of last year increased by 9.4% comparing to the previous years. Our technical
excellence, which is the best in the industry, is the best possible protection of all our
financial operations. And these are the basis of this result.

Page 5 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

The second message is that we suggest a share dividend equal to EUR 0.90, which marks
a 5.9% growth comparing to last year's dividend. This is made possible not only by the
profitability of our business. But also to a continuous improvement of our assets and
capital situation that has never been so sound.
The third message is that we have outgrown all financial targets of the period 2015-2018.
Indeed, we generated EUR 8 billion cash flow as compared to a forecast of EUR 7 billion.
So we are ready to distribute EUR 5.1 billion dividend, which is above the EUR 5 billion
target that was set at the beginning.
Finally, the average return on capital is amounting to 13.4%. And this too is above the
target. This demonstrates once again our ability to deliver on our promises and
implement our strategies in a disciplined and successful way.
The fourth and last message of mine is that after completing our industrial transfer -turnover, we are -- or turnaround, as we call it, we are well positioned to implement our
new strategic plan for the year 2021, which I'll describe to you in short.

Bloomberg Transcript

What has been attained by Generali in the recent past is noteworthy. We allowed Generali
to optimize its geographical footprint, simplify and streamlining the operating machine
and obtain a technical performance which is the best in the industry. We were also able to
rebalance our portfolio, preferring innovative solutions, offering better added value to our
clients. They are capital-light and more resilient to market fluctuations. We launched a new
strategy for managing assets. And we have already reported an increased preference
displaced towards our brand and a better confidence of our customers.
We were able to reorganize our activities in France and Germany. In this respect, a few
days ago, we have announced the conclusion of the sale procedure of Generali Leben,
which is a high-capital-absorbing company. And this has been important for us and for the
transformation of the whole industry in Germany. And we were able to do all this without
giving up our market share. But we have strengthened our distribution and our brand in
Germany. We were also able to streamline our operating structure. In this connection, may
I emphasize our ability to operate and thank all our colleagues in Germany that made this
-- all this possible. Today in Germany, we are much stronger than we were yesterday.
The effectiveness of our strategic plan that has just been concluded and our ability in
implementing it in the appreciation of our new strategy have been acknowledged by the
market. Assicurazioni Generali quotation is greater than EUR 70 (sic) (EUR 17) per share.
That was yesterday, actually. We don't know for today. Starting from the announcement of
the new industrial plan and industrial turnaround, which occurred in November 2016, to this
moment, the Generali share price has grown much greater than the average of European
insurance shares, insurance securities.
Starting from that time -- starting from the announcement of our plan in November 2018
to today, our shares have grown by 20%. This appreciation confirms a reversal of trend
compared to the previous years. We believe to be able now to do even better
implemented -- implementing our plan called Generali 2021. Since our presentation
Page 6 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

announcement of our new strategic plan in November 2018 in Milan, I, myself, together
with the General Manager, FrÃ©dÃ©ric de Courtois; and Cristiano Borean, the Group's
Chief Financial Officer, we have been appreciated by hundreds of analysts and investors
that displayed great interest for our profitability and growth and also digital
transformation.
We started concentrating on Generali 2021 since the beginning of this year, 2019. Our
strategy is based on a strong ambition, that of making Generali the lifelong partner of all
its customers, offering innovative solutions, customized solution, thanks to an unmatched
distribution network. Generali will lead the European insurance market, both for
individuals, families and professionals, small and medium enterprises, creating a platform
of -- also creating an asset management platform specialized on the international level,
pursuing opportunities in high-potential markets. This is our ambition. This ambition,
together with the strategy aiming at implementing it, is deeply rooted into Generali's DNA
on one hand. And on our vision for the future on the other.
Concerning Generali's DNA, may I quote some of our main strong points. First, Generali is
a leader in Europe for insurance premiums with EUR 67 billion premium income in 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, Generali can boast a highly qualified distribution network which is unmatched in
the sector. Generali serves 61 million clients in 50 countries with -- through over 155,000
agents and distributors, 100,000 of which are based in Europe. Thanks to this unique
platform, we are able to meet all requirements of our customers with a customized
service, consolidating their confidence and our brand.
Third point, Generali is the best possible insurance company in terms of direct insurance
in P&C and Life businesses.
The fourth point, insurance solutions offered by Generali are now complemented by a
true asset management strategy. It's a strategy focused on competitive advantages, on
the development of a boutique asset management platforms, which means professional
teams, highly specialized and focused on high-potential investments.
Our vision of the future is based on 4 strong convictions. The first, we are convinced that
Europe, which is our main market, will remain one of the biggest and most attractive
insurance markets and asset management markets. Many believe that Europe is a mature
market, saturated market. But we are not convinced. We, on the contrary, believe that
there is potential to be exploited, attracting an aging population, offering answers to the
needs of this aging population that state institution are no longer able to meet. I am
referring to pensions, health, assistance and lack of self-sufficiency.
Second point, the insurance market growth will be driven by individual customers, families,
small and medium companies more and more in the future. Professionals in small and
medium enterprises in particular offer a great potential in markets like Italy, Germany,
France, which are our 3 main markets.

Page 7 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

Third point, customers will try more and more to improve their quality of their life through
integrated solutions. They will be more and more able to integrate life products with
savings products. This marks shifting attention from protection and reimbursement to
assistance and service from production needs. So this means for us to go from our own
production needs to the customers' needs.
Fourth conviction, the traditional physical distribution will mainly -- will remain fundamental
and agencies will remain central to our policy, to our strategy. This gives me the
opportunity -- offers me the opportunity to welcome all the agents that are present here
with us.
Customers, therefore, will look for a better and better qualified and customized service.
Human relations will remain of critical importance in the future as well. That's why agents
will continue to represent a key component of our business model and will have to be
able to always supply more and more value by providing advice and consulting, 360
degrees. And supporting their activity with digital tools. We are committed to
strengthening and support our distribution network through digital innovation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's go into detail now in our strategic plan. It is based on 3 pillars. First, Generali will
grow its profitability, strengthening its leadership in Europe, catching opportunities in highpotential markets like Asia and Latin America and developing an asset management
platform at the International level.
Second, Generali will manage its capital in a better disciplined and stringent way and it will
optimize its financial position. We will be even more stringent in managing our own capital
and our own cash flow so as to fund our organic and external growth, reduce the cost of
debt and distribute more dividends to you, shareholders.
Third pillar, Generali is going to invest in innovation and digital transformation in order to
become a long-life -- lifelong partner of our customers and clients, offering them flexible
customized solutions, offering them continuous advice and consulting in all financial and
insurance matters.
On the whole, we envisage to invest EUR 1 billion by 2021 in strategic initiatives. Of course,
we already started implementing this new strategy. And I'll provide you some examples.
We have already integrated or created 8 new asset management boutiques. The results
of our group has consequently grown by 24% in 2018 -- 24% compared to 2018, in line
with our objectives. Moreover, in Italy, over 50% of our policies are already totally digital.
Another example is the -- what I'll call the pan-European platform on digital mobility that
we are setting up now, capitalizing on our unique expertise in connected insurance. That
means that we have 1.6 million connected vehicles all over the world. So we are able to
customize policies and also provide advice to our customers concerning their driving style.

Page 8 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

But we can -- the enhancement of our human capital and a stronger brand, we will be able
to implement our strategy. Concerning our human capital, we wish that Generali becomes
the insurance company with the highest commitment rate of its workers. That's why we
are implementing new training programs for new digital competencies. And we are also
applying the principles of the smart working, such as remote working.
Recently, we have also moved all our colleagues in Milan in the new Generali Tower called
City Life. This is a real estate project which means an evolution in the way of working.
Another important project is (Palazzo Berlam) here in Trieste. And we plan to officially
open it, the renewed building, this year.
We are happy to remind you that -- I also like to remind you of an initiative which will
strengthen the feeling of belonging of our colleagues. And I am referring to a plan
devoted to them in 2019 which will give our employees the right to buy Generali shares at
facilitated conditions. And this plan will be subject to your approval here today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now concerning our winged lion, our brand, we intend to strengthen it, becoming the
best possible operator among the European companies in terms of customer satisfaction.
Finally, concerning social responsibility and sustainability, we wish to increase premiums
derived from responsible insurance solutions, such as those concerning preventive
medicine, assistance to the disabled and covering -- and acting on the policies and
encouraging policies of nonpolluting peoples. We mean to allocate EUR 4.5 billion by 2021
in green and sustainable projects. We also aimed at launching an offer of insurance
solutions devoted to responsible customers. In other words, those who are interested in
adopting a sustainable way of life and improving their impact on lessening their green
footprint.
We continue the work done by The Human Safety Net, the global program of Generali to
support the communities in which it operates. We would like to remind you that in 2018,
the group -- -- our group was included in the rank made worldwide for the social
responsibility of companies. I am referring to the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index
that aims at providing support and care to newborns affected by some condition such as
asphyxia. Through the -- and this is the Dow Jones Sustainability Index that has ranked our
company, our group in their lists.
Through the implementation of our Generali 2021 strategy, we wish to attain 3 financial
objectives during the 3-year plan. First of all, we wish to increase the profit per share
between 6% and 8%. Second, we wish to increase our dividends and we will do it in a
sustainable way, that is keeping a payout ratio between 65% and 55%. Third, the average
return of capital will be greater than 11.5%. And we expect this to generate benefits for all
our stakeholders, among which, you, our shareholders, a better return for you.
I'd like to conclude with a message. In preparing our Generali 2021 strategy, we wanted to
look beyond the 3-year horizon, defining for the first time a long-term plan, our long-term
target. Our long-term target is to help people to build a safer future for themselves and
to protect their lives and helping them to implement their dreams. My own commitment,
Page 9 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

together with all our management teams, is to -- thanks to the contribution of all my
colleagues, agents, distributors and shareholders, to see to it that Generali constantly
pursues the attainment of this long-term goal.

FINAL

Now I give the floor to Cristiano Borean, CFO of the group.

Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

Thank you, Philippe. Thank you, Chairman, for your welcoming words. Ladies and
gentlemen. Good morning. It is a pleasure and an honor for me to be here for the first
time in my role as a CFO of this group and you, as shareholders.
Our Managing Director has already explained the results of Generali in 2018 and our
positioning to achieve the ambitious objectives defined in the new strategic plan, Generali
2021. I will now give you some insights on the group performance and the performance of
the parent company, Assicurazioni Generali. And today, you're called upon to adopt the
financial statements.

Bloomberg Transcript

The strict implementation of our strategy has enabled us to complete the strategic plan
2015-2018, exceeding all the objectives. Before starting to explain the results achieved in
2018, I would like to remind you that, as usual, the figures of 2017 are expressed in
homogenous term to reflect the implementation of the accounting principle, IFRS 5.
Let's start from the growth in terms of value and summarizing the main leverages. 2018
was a positive year for Generali. Result -- industrial results were substantial and showing
that we are able to grow in Life segments and nonlife segments and asset management.
The turnover has grown both in terms of total premium income and asset management.
In details, the overall premiums equaled to EUR 67.7 billion, grew by 4.9%. In spite of the
unfavorable financial markets, in the Life business, the net income has increased,
exceeding EUR 11 billion. And we are among the best groups in the market. And premiums
have gone up to EUR 46.1 billion, keeping a business mix focused on capital-light products.
Life technical reserves have been growing with an amount of EUR 343 billion.
In nonlife business, I'd like to point out the very good performance of our premium
income, growing by 3.3% to EUR 20.6 billion, thanks to the development of motor and
non-motor areas. The total assets under management amounted to EUR 488 billion with a
growth of 0.4% in spite of the adverse conditions of the financial markets.
Now let's talk about the detailed analysis of the volumes of our Life business. First of all,
I'd like to focus on the net income growing by 5.2% at EUR 11.4 billion. This is in line with
the balance between the cash, the premium and the payments for maturities and
redemptions of policies. This indicator shows the actual growth in this business. It is
important to highlight the composition of this income that was achieved in a context of
high volatility of financial markets. And this is the evidence of the attitude of the
management in the achievement of objectives.

Page 10 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

The focus is on unit-linked and protection product. And we are continuing to have a
selective approach in the underwriting of saving products with capital-light products. So
the main engines are Italy, France and Germany. The substantial growth of 5.5% in the
direct premiums has been supported by the main countries of the group, in particularly
Italy, thanks to the in-force management actions; France and Germany, thanks to unitlinked and -- products and pure-risk and health products. The development was positive in
China thanks to the saving product and risk (and else). The total net income has been
reflected in the increase of 2.2% of Life technical reserves amounting to EUR 343.4 billion.
Now let's talk about the nonlife business. In 2018, the gross issued premiums amounted
to EUR 20.6 billion, growing by 3.3% in homogenous terms. This result has been
implemented thanks to the joint increase of 3.4% in the motor sector and 2.7% in nonmotor sector. The main contributors are Austria and Central and Eastern European
countries with a growth of 4.8%. And the International area growing by 9.2%. In Italy,
there's a slight decrease of 1.6% as a result of the fierce competition on prices and the
more rigorous criteria in the underwriting in the Global Corporate & Commercial lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now let's talk about the profitability indicators. The operating results grew by 3%,
reaching EUR 4.857 billion, confirming our technical excellence with a new business margin
amounting to 4.35% and a combined ratio of 93% in nonlife business. These indicators
confirm Generali as the best practice in the technical performance as compared to direct
competitors.
I would like to point out the substantial growth in asset management with 24% growth as
a result of the business acceleration in Europe and the first results of the implementation
of our strategy. The net result amounts to EUR 2.309 billion. But growing by 9.4% as
compared to the previous year following the improvement in the operating results and
the positive contribution resulting from sales, trading off the negative effects of the
productivity of financial markets.
The growth in value has been achieved not to the detriment of profitability. On the
contrary, that was increased. All this ensures that the creation of value on long term, in line
with our strategy. And we can suggest a dividend growing by 5.9%. That is EUR 0.90 per
share.
Now all segments have positively contributed to the growth of the operating results. In
the Life business, the operating results grew by 2.8%. That is EUR 3.067 billion. The
positive trend in the developments of the technical margin, net of the insurance general
expenses that are particularly high in France as a result of the impact of the longevity
rates there. And in Italy for the positive contribution of the unit-linked products, more than
trades off the decrease in the investments due to the lower profits and the higher
devaluations in the last quarter of the year.
In nonlife business, the operating results amounts to EUR 1.992 billion with a growth of
2.5%. As anticipated, there's a substantial growth in the asset management sector with an
operating result equal to EUR 335 million. Starting from 2018, this segment is reported

Page 11 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

separately from the item holding and other activities, as we did in the past, to better
reflect its results in line with the group's strategy.
The item holding and other activities has improved as compared to 2017, reducing the
loss from EUR 163 million to EUR 70 million in 2018. This progress has been achieved in
particular due to profits from some private equity and real estate investments. The
evaluation of inter-sector differences is due to higher dividend and profits at the intragroup level. And these actions have achieved a growth of 3% in the operating results of
the group, reaching EUR 4.857 billion. And the period between 2015-2018 was closed with
return on equity on average of 13.4%, exceeding the objective of the plan that was 13%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let's see the level of profitability of the new production in the Life sector. Before
starting, I would like to tell you that the figures for 2017 includes the contribution on
dismissed entities. Valuations are in homogenous terms. The improvement of 26 basis
points to 4.33% is mainly due to the managerial action to streamline the product mix and
the better profitability of the new products with a low capital absorption. So therefore, the
value of the new production has increased by 4.3% with a total of EUR 1.877 billion. The
main engines are Italy, France and the International area.
The combined duration of the group, an indication relating the payments per claim and
expenses to premium, is equal to 93%. That is still the best among our direct competitors
in spite of the slight increase of 0.1percentage points as compared to the end of 2017.
The loss ratio at 65.1% is in line with the value of 2017. This is the result of 2 contrary
impacts: on one hand, the improvement of 0.4% in the claims in the catastrophe sector;
and an increase of 0.4percentage point from the (calendar) claims. And noncatastrophebased.
And this was impacted by a higher number of large claims. And the impact was particularly
favorable in the previous year. Without considering the catastrophe and the large claims,
the claims would be improved by 0.2%. The slight increase in the expense ratio, 0.1%, is
mainly due to the acquisition expenses for the support of non-motor business in Europe
and in the Central and Eastern European (Europa France) and Europ Assistance as a result
of the development of non-motor income.
The operating results of the asset management has increased by 28% to EUR 335 million
at the end of 2018. The increase in the operating result and the net result, plus 24%, has
been determined by many factors, like the development of a third-party and unit-linked
business; the increase in the value of investment of real assets, for instance, real estate
and private equity; the improvement of cost efficiencies and renegotiations of fees on
insurance mandates of the group companies.
Another area of stronger focus of our managers over the year was the cost management.
This has enabled us to reduce the cost in mature markets of a further EUR 90 million. This
area is still a priority for us.
Now let's see the shift from the operating result to the net result. So the first item, the
nonoperating result of investment has negatively contributed with EUR 155 million as
Page 12 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

compared to a positive contribution of EUR 65 million in this previous year. This is the
result of the devaluation of a EUR 431 million resulting from the negative evolution of the
share market in the last quarter of the year and the lower net profit in line with the
planned policies to support future performance of investments. The profits were equal to
EUR 265 million, decreasing by EUR 45 million as compared to the previous year.
Nonoperating holding expenses have increased by EUR 40 million to EUR 795 million,
mainly due to the closing of the branch in Japan and the restructuring of the Generali
Employee Benefit with the transfer of the central office from Brussels to Luxembourg.
And the cost for a negative interest has been decreasing. In line with the objectives of the
strategic plan, this decrease will be even more substantial in 2019 as a result of the
transactions on the debt that have been implemented so far.
The item, other nonoperative net expenses equal to EUR 411 million, is mainly due to
nonrecurring costs like refurbishing cost for an amount of EUR 211 million due to the
acceleration in the restructuring in Germany and other expenses of local products, IT cost
and other group project cost. In the future on this nonrecurring item, there will be a
progressive decrease. This item also includes the profit of EUR 77 million from the sales of
the business in Panama and the devaluation of the value of the acquired portfolio equal to
EUR 98 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

The tax rate of the group is equal to 32.6%, in line with last year.
The item dismissed transactions has a profit of EUR 173 million. This includes EUR 49
million of profit for the sales of the Irish transactions and the profits of our entities in
dismission like Belgium, Guernsey and Generali Leben in Germany. And these dismissals
have not been finalized at the end of 2018. But all these transactions were ended before
the date of this meeting.
The third part of results were in line with the figures of 2017. These trends have resulted in
an overall result of EUR 2.309 billion, with an increase of 9.4%.
And now let's talk about the dividend. In recent year, the increased asset solidity and the
industrial transformation of the group has increased to an increased ability to generate
cash. And this has increased dividends. This year, too, there will be a further increase to
EUR 0.90 per share with a growth of 5.9%. If you will adopt -- if you adopt it, we will
exceed the target of the strategic plan of EUR 5 billion of cumulative dividend in the full
year period from 2015 to 2018.
Now let's focus on the main capital and asset indicators of the group. First of all, we
needed to point out the increase of the Solvency II ratio as per applicable regulations. And
this indicator has grown by 9percentage points, reaching 216% in a difficult financial
market. And in November 2018, Generali was authorized to extend the internal capital
model to Austria and Switzerland with the benefit of about 15percentage points on the
Solvency ratio.

Page 13 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

The net equity has decreased to EUR 23.6 million with a decrease of 5.9%. The main
cause is the negative development of the reserves on profit or losses on the financial
business available-for-sale. This has decreased by EUR 2.3 billion as a result of the
situations of financial markets. This has had an impact on the total of assets that is EUR
516 billion. Investments amount to EUR 416 billion. The main category continues to be the
fixed income instruments that is 72% of the total. I wish to point it out that the value of
investments is net of the amount of the discontinued activities. And they are identified as
noncurrent activities or dismissal group for sale. And this is equal to EUR 55.9 billion.
Now I wish to end my speech explaining that data of the parent company. And today, you
are called upon to adopt the financial statement. Now let's see data on income, premium
income. The gross premium -- total gross premium amounted to EUR 3.311 billion. The
slight decrease of 1.7% is due to the decrease in the Life segment for the dismissal of the
reinsurance relations with the Dutch entity. And there was also the decrease in the volume
of the reinsurance acceptance in runoff of the Alleanza Assicurazioni S.p. A.

Bloomberg Transcript

In nonlife business, there's a growth of 1.1% to EUR 1.680 billion. And the result of the
ordinary management, including the industrial management and the financial
management and other ordinary income, has increased by 6%. And the ordinary financial
management was positive as a result of the higher dividend from the subsidiaries. And
this was partly traded off by the decrease in the industrial management. This is due to the
lower results in reinsurance -- accepted reinsurance in Life and nonlife business. In Life
business, this was the result of the cessation of reinsurance contracted with our operating
subsidiaries in Holland and the decrease in the runoff treaties with Alleanza Assicurazioni.
The nonlife business has been decreasing for a higher frequency of large claims. The
combined ratio has grown by 0.5 points and up to 92.4%. And the improvement of the
results contributed to the increase of 4.9%.
Now let's see the other components of the profits of the parent company. The decrease
in the contribution of the extraordinary management is due to higher cost for taxes on
previous years. And the positive contribution of the tax component is mainly the result of
the growth of the IRES income.
Before ending my speech, I would like to point out the main asset indicators of the parent
company. Assets are equal to EUR 45.3 billion. And they are mainly group shareholdings,
that is EUR 29.5 billion. And this is nicely below the value of 2017 for the dismissal of
Generali PanEurope, Colombia and the merger by incorporation of the Dutch subsidiary,
Generali Finance B.V. The decrease in assets is mainly due to the item investments of a
Class D as a result of the reduction in deposits of reinsurers of Generali PanEurope, which
was dismissed.
The external (index) is about EUR 11.2 billion, growing by 9.9% due to the increase of
subordinated loans relating to the incorporation of Generali Finance B.V. In homogenous
terms, this would be decreasing by EUR 250 million.

Page 14 of 16



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

FINAL

The net technical reserves are about EUR 8.1 billion, decreasing as compared to the
previous year, both for the termination of reinsurance contracts and the decrease in the
portfolio. The net equity is almost EUR 15 billion, slightly increasing thanks to the positive
trends in the profits of the year that has more than compensated the dividend paid in
2017. Finally, the Solvency level is unchanged as compared to the previous year.
Finally, I'd like to sum up the main highlights and remarks on the results of the group. Point
one, 218 (sic) (2018) was a positive year for Generali with substantial industrial results,
showing that we are able to grow in a sustainable way, increasing profitability in all
segments, also in a general difficult context and in volatile markets. The ability to retain
profit -- best-in-class profitability margins in our business are the best quality guarantee
for the future growth.
Second, point two. We have successfully completed the industrial transformation of the
group and we are now more efficient and able to generate more cash flows in our
business. We are focusing on the implementation of the Generali 2021 plan and we have a
proven ability to achieve our objectives. And that's why I'm very positive on the
implementation of the new industrial plan.
Point three, our Solvency is sound and it is equal to 216% at the end of 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

Point four, all these elements are enabling us to increase -- to further increase the
dividend to EUR 0.90 per share, as also specified by our Managing Director.
I would like to thank all our employees of the commercial network, the managers, their -all the staff and their families, who are the actual strength of our lion. And their talent and
their constant commitment made it possible for us to achieve these results.
Thank you very much for your attention. And now I give the floor to the Chairman for the
meeting.

Gabriele Galateri di Genola e Suniglia
Thank you, Cristiano, thank you, Philippe, for your speeches. Now this is the end of the
first part of the meeting and this is the end of the streaming broadcast. And that is all, the
shareholders who have been attending via web. And I invite them to come here next year.
And wish to -- and many of our employees are also attending this meeting. Thank you for
your attention.
(Statements in English on this transcript were spoken by an interpreter present on the live
call.)

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
Page 15 of 16



any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2019-05-07

Page 16 of 16

