Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Clive C R Bannister, Group Chief Executive Officer
Jim McConville , Group Finance Director and Group Director
Susan McInnes , Chief Executive Officer SLAL and Group Director, Open Business

Other Participants
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Jonathan Hocking, Analyst
Ming Zhu, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Phoenix Group 2019 Interim
Results presentation. I am joined on the podium today by Jim McConville, our Group CFO
and Group Director, Scotland.
Jim and I will take you through today's presentation. Then Andy Moss, CEO of Phoenix
Life and Group Director of our Heritage business; and Susan McInnes, CEO of Standard
Life Assurance and Group Director of our Open business will join us at the end of the
presentation for the difficult questions, which you will put in their direction.
Phoenix has enjoyed a strong first half of the year. We have reported results today that
are in line with or slightly ahead of the company compiled consensus across all our key
performance indicators. This extends our track record of meeting or exceeding all of our
publicly stated financial targets established since 2011.
Our KPIs highlight Phoenix's ability to deliver dependable cash generation year after year
and the ongoing resilience of our regulatory capital position in this volatile world. At our
full year results in March, I set out Phoenix's strategic priorities for 2019 and Phoenix is
delivering on these priorities. Jim will walk you through the financials in a moment.
Meanwhile let me comment on our transition programme.

Page 1 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

By bringing together the best of the legacy Phoenix and Standard Life Assurance
businesses, we are building an operating platform that will service not only our existing
business, but will meet our future growth aspirations. The programme is progressing well
and we are on track to deliver GBP1.2 billion of synergy targets. In parallel, improving
customer outcomes is essential to our mission. We have made good progress on
customer initiatives and improving customer service.
Phoenix now has a range of growth opportunities and is writing new business across both
its Heritage and Open segments. New business written during the first half of 2019 has
delivered GBP250 million, GBP0.25 billion of additional long-term cash generation. This is
incremental to our current cash generation targets and brings more sustainability to
Phoenix's dividend.
Finally, the M&A pipeline remains interesting. We are ready to take opportunities as they
arise to deliver value accretive growth to the Group. As expected the Board declared an
interim dividend of 23.4 pence per share, which is consistent with the final 2018 dividend
and in line with our stable and sustainable dividend policy.
Corporate transactions have been the trigger to review the level of our dividend. This has
resulted in four dividend increases equivalent to circa 4.8% per annum over the last seven
years.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now pass you onto Jim who will take you through our financials. Jim?

Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Thank you, Clive, and good morning, everyone. Good to see you. I will begin today by
talking you through the Group's performance against its financial targets. As Clive said we
have had a strong first half of the year.
I will take you through each of the key metrics in more detail shortly, but let me set out in
summary our results. Strong cash generation of GBP287 million, an interim dividend of
23.4 pence per share, IFRS operating profit of GBP325 million, new business contribution
of GBP116 million, PGH Group Solvency II surplus of GBP3 billion, and a shareholder capital
coverage ratio of 160%. Assets under administration of GBP245 billion and finally our
leverage ratio of 23% below our target range of 25% to 30%.
In March we announced new cash generation targets that illustrate the long-term cash
flow profile of the Group. These targets exclude any new business written after 31st
December 2018, whether this is new business that arises through BPA into the Heritage
segment or through the Standard Life brand into the Open segment.
They also exclude management actions in the post 2024 cash generation guidance. We
are on track to meet these targets, which we will update at the full year to reflect the new
business written during the year assumption changes and 2019 cash generation. In the
first six months of 2019, the insurance entities remitted GBP537 million of cash to the

Page 2 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

Group. This included the first cash generation from Standard Life Assurance Limited, which
we acquired last year.

FINAL

As expected, the Group injected GBP250 million of cash into the Group's Irish domicile
subsidiary to appropriately capitalize it prior to the Part VII transfer of the Group's
European branch businesses in March. This concluded the Group's Brexit preparations.
As a result, we delivered cash generation of GBP287 million in the first half of 2019 and we
expect the second half of 2019 to deliver strong cash generation and are, therefore,
signaling today that we expect to be towards the upper end of the 2019 cash generation
target of GBP600 million to GBP700 million.
This slide shows the sources and uses of cash for the Group over the next five years. As
you can see, the uses of cash at the Group level remain small in number. These include
the cost of maintaining our head office function, making contributions to the Pearl and
Abbey Life pension schemes, servicing the interest on the debt outstanding and paying a
dividend of GBP338 million per annum. There has been no material change to these
sources and uses of cash during the period. Of note, the conclusion of discussions with all
three of the Group's defined benefit pension schemes following triennial valuations has
resulted in no change to our funding commitments.

Bloomberg Transcript

And after these uses of cash, we are left with an illustrative GBP1.3 billion of cash at the
holding companies as at 2023, and over the coming years this accumulation of cash
balances will be used to support new BPA deals and future acquisitions that meet our
acquisition criteria.
To demonstrate the resilience of our cash generation target, we have set out the
sensitivity of this target to various stress events. As you will be aware, Phoenix has a low
appetite to market risks and uses hedging to mitigate the majority of its exposure to
equity, currency, and interest rate risk. This translates into the low sensitivity to these risks
we present today.
Phoenix's main exposure continues to be to longevity risk on its annuity business and here
we model the impact of every annuitant living six months longer, and even in this unlikely
scenario, the Group will be able to service its debt obligations and continue to pay a
dividend of GBP338 million per annum. This resilience in our cash generation brings
increased certainty to our dividend.
This slide follows on from the earlier one, showing the position for the Group after 2023.
Having repaid all outstanding borrowings, the Group expects to have GBP7 billion of cash
beyond 2023, available to meet future dividends, interest, expenses and fund growth. As
previously stated, our cash generation targets will be increased by new business written
through our BPA and open channels from the beginning of 2019.
Moving now to solvency. Phoenix maintains a strong capital position with a Solvency II
surplus of GBP3 billion and the shareholder capital coverage ratio of 160%. We continue to
believe that unrestricted Tier 1 Solvency II shareholder Own Funds remains a reasonable
Page 3 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

proxy for shareholder value. We refer to this as UT1, and as at 30th June, 2019, this
amounted to GBP5.7 billion. However, Solvency II Own Funds does not attribute value in a
number of areas where shareholder value exists. These include contract boundaries,
where the value of in-force on the unit linked business is restricted under Solvency II and
the shareholders share of our with-profits estate.
Adjusting for these items provides a better proxy to shareholder value for Phoenix at
30th June, 2019 of GBP6.1 billion, which equates to GBP8.46 per ordinary share. It is worth
noting that this value proxy places no value on future new business from vesting annuities,
BPA, or the open channels, or management actions, and also recognizes the interim
dividend payable in September.
During the period, we saw the PGH Group surplus decrease slightly from GBP3.2 billion to
GBP3 billion. The main driver of this reduction was the capital dis-synergy arising from our
Brexit preparations, where a loss of diversification and transitional benefits arose from the
Part VII transfer of the Group's European branch businesses to Standard Life International
Limited because it is a standard formula company. The strain of GBP1 billion from new
business during the period primarily relates to the cost of BPA and vesting annuities
written in the Heritage segment as new business written within the UK Open and
European segments remains capital light.

Bloomberg Transcript

Economic variances are reduced by the Group's hedging strategy for equity, currency, and
interest rate risk, which brings resilience to the Group's solvency position. The figures
presented assume a dynamic recalculation of transitionals, which dampens the impact of
interest rate changes in the period.
The Group has reviewed the assumptions used to value its GBP2.4 billion ERM portfolio to
better reflect management's expectations of house price inflation and dilapidation
provisions. This review resulted in a net strain of circa GBP40 million.
In the second half of 2019, we will conclude our annual review of assumptions including
longevity and property volatility. Finally, other includes a GBP0.1 billion strain arising from
the buying of the remaining GBP1.1 billion PGL pension scheme liabilities completed during
the period. This strain is expected to reverse by the year end once regulatory approval is
received to bring these liabilities into the matching adjustment fund.
Management actions added GBP350 million to our Solvency II surplus in 2019 and included
GBP115 million of capital synergies on the Standard Life Assurance businesses. The
Standard Life Assurance Limited capital synergies are principally driven from the benefits
of a regulatory approved intra-group restructuring, which improved the capital efficiency
of the Group.
Other management actions included our ongoing investment in our liquid assets,
completion of a further tranche of ERM securitization and matching adjustment fund
optimization. Long-term illiquid assets return a higher yield for shareholders and better
match the duration of long-dated annuity liabilities. We therefore have an active
programme of sourcing illiquid assets including equity release mortgages, commercial
Page 4 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

real estate, and private placements. At 30th June, 2019 around 22% of our GBP19 billion
of shareholder assets backing annuities within non-profit funds were invested in illiquid
assets. Our target is an upper limit of 40% allocation to these asset classes, and whilst we
continue to be driven by value rather than volume, we expect to originate up to GBP1
billion of illiquid assets per annum.
With over 90% of our illiquid asset portfolio having a credit rating of A or above, we are
comfortable that our exposure to credit risk remains within appetite. The sourcing of
illiquid assets continues to be competitive, but we remain on track to meet our 2019
origination targets with circa GBP500 million of illiquid assets originated by June through a
combination of private placements and ERM funding.
This volume delivered GBP80 million of solvency benefit to the Group comprising a
GBP150 million increase in own funds offset by a GBP70 million increase in the SCR.
Phoenix's capital position remains resilient to risk events. The sensitivities presented
today are consistent with those disclosed previously with the exception of property.
A natural consequence of the growth of our ERM portfolio is an increase in our exposure
to future property price growth. Our target shareholder capital coverage ratio range is
140% to 180% and the sensitivities set out show that Phoenix remains well within this
range under these scenarios.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have delivered a strong set of IFRS results with operating profit of GBP325 million and
a profit after tax of GBP39 million. The increase compared to the prior year is primarily
driven by the inclusion of Standard Life Assurance business in 2019.
Investment return variances include net negative economic variances on hedging
positions held across the Group during the period to protect the Group's Solvency II
surplus and deliver resilience to cash generation. These losses have been partially offset
by the positive impact of moving the asset portfolio towards a strategic asset allocation.
The first half of 2019 operating profit result includes the underlying expected returns from
each of the life businesses segments and was enhanced by profits from management
actions, new business, experience variances, and modeling and methodology changes.
New business profits primarily comprise profits in the UK Heritage segment from both
BPA and vesting annuities. An operating loss has been recognized in respect of updates
to actuarial assumptions, principally relating to the persistency of products with variable
guarantees and associated assumptions with regards to late returns.
Our second strategic priority for 2019 is to deliver the transition following the acquisition
of Standard Life Assurance businesses. In March, we increased the targets for cost and
capital synergies arising from the transition to a combined GBP1.2 billion target.
Having generated a further GBP115 million of capital synergies in the first half of 2019, we
have now delivered 85% of the total target of GBP720 million and we expect the majority
of the remaining capital synergies to emerge in 2021 following regulatory approval of our
Internal Model harmonization.
Page 5 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

We have made good progress towards our cost synergy target delivering circa 30% of
the target reduction in the combined cost base in less than one year. And finally we have
realized GBP17 million of one-off cost synergies by removing duplication in the projects of
the two legacy businesses. In summary, we are on track to deliver the GBP1.2 billion
combined synergy target for the acquisition in two to three years.
Our transition program has three phases. Phase one will deliver the end state operating
model for head office functions and we are now well into the implementation stage of this
phase and continue to make strong progress across all functions. Phase two will deliver a
multi-site financial and actuarial operating model and harmonize the Group's two Solvency
II Internal Models.
We continue to work closely with the PRA on Internal Model harmonization and are on
track to submit our pre-application in December with the formal application targeted to
follow in quarter one of 2020. These timelines are challenging and subject to change, but
we remain confident of delivering phase two including the single harmonized Internal
Model by the end of 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

In phase three, we will deliver our end-state customer and technology operating model. It
is extremely important to the long-term success of Phoenix that we get this operating
model right. Phoenix is committed to the growth of its Open business and our operating
model must support this with a modernized platform that can respond quickly to the
evolving market and provide enhanced customer service.
The platform must be scalable to support future acquisitions and efficient to enable
delivery of our cost synergy targets. We will have a hybrid operating model with a
combination of both in-house operations and outsourced operations through our strategic
partnerships and implementation will take two to three years.
Finally, today I would like to take some time to talk about the new business that Phoenix
has written in the period. Phoenix does not include new business in its long-term cash
generation guidance. New business whether through BPA or through the sale of Open
products is therefore incremental to cash generation and brings further sustainability to
our dividend.
During the first six months of 2019 Phoenix saw growth inflows of new business across its
three business segments of GBP4 billion. We estimate that this new business will
generate GBP250 million of incremental long-term cash generation, circa 1.5 times the
interim dividend. We continue to take a selective and proportionate approach to BPA and
look to allocate circa GBP100 million of surplus capital to this growth area per annum.
The BPA market was buoyant in the first half of 2019 and Phoenix competed well
completing our GBP0.5 billion liability transaction with the trustees of the Marks and
Spencer's pension scheme. The day one capital allocated to this transaction of GBP32
million is expected to generate long-term cash generation of circa GBP90 million.

Page 6 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

We completed a further GBP0.2 billion BPA transaction at the start of August and expect
to complete further value accretive transactions in the second half of the year. The
performance of our UK Open business segment was driven by strong workplace gross
inflows following the auto-enrollment increased from 5% to 8% in April 2019.
The rise in total workplace gross inflows year-on-year illustrates the cumulative effect of
the auto-enrollment increases in 2018 and 2019. The 2019 auto-enrollment increase is also
the biggest driver of new business contribution with circa GBP50 million of the period
total coming from this rise. We therefore expect 2019 new business contribution to be
heavily loaded to the first half of the year. It was a more challenging period for the Wrap
and Retail product lines within UK Open.
The reduction in new business gross inflows year-on-year is primarily driven by the sectorwide tail-off in defined benefit to defined contribution pension scheme transfers, but it is
also due to Brexit-related market uncertainty, which has been evidenced by reduced
inflows across the industry. Our European business has also suffered from the effects of
customer uncertainty with gross inflows of new business down from GBP622 million in the
first half of 2018 to GBP386 million in the first half of 2019.
Our UK Open and European segments delivered GBP116 million of new business
contribution, an increase of GBP16 million period-on-period and this new business will add
GBP160 million of long-term organic cash generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now hand you back to Clive.

Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Thank you, Jim. Two sections left. This is about customer outcomes. Improving customer
outcomes for our circa 10 million policyholders and customers continues to be central to
our mission. This part of the presentation highlights the progress we have made to-date.
We have enhanced our online proposition to improve customers digital journeys, working
closely with Diligenta, our outsource partner, a further 1.2 million Phoenix Life customers
were provided access to My Phoenix. We also continued to improve the digital
functionality available to our Standard Life Assurance branded customers and as a result
we see over 1 million app and dashboard logins every month. This is new good territory
for Phoenix.
As part of our engaging the unengaged programme we have contacted 1 million Life and
Protection customers to remind them of the cover they hold, and to date have
reconnected a further 2,000 customers who had otherwise lost contact with their own
policies.
Finally, Standard Life Assurance is one of the first providers to receive authorization from
the pension regulator for two master trust schemes. These comprise GBP5 billion of
assets under administration for over 240,000 clients making them amongst the largest in

Page 7 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

the UK. This is a growing modern business in which Standard Life Assurance is wellpositioned to compete.

FINAL

Customer service metrics comprise 25% of the performance measures within the
corporate component of the Group's annual incentive plan. This weighting evidences the
importance that Phoenix attaches to the delivery of high-quality service to our customers.
During the period we have either met or exceeded all of our targets.
Let me turn to growth and the opportunities that lie ahead of Phoenix. In our full-year
results we set out a hypothesis that over time the incremental cash generated from new
Open business could offset the run-off of our Heritage business and thereby bring
greater sustainability to the long-term cash generation for the Group.
To illustrate this hypothesis we used a graphic which we call the wedge. Jim talked you
through the new business figures for the first six months of this year, which resulted in
incremental long-term cash generation of GBP250 million. This level of cash generation
would cover Phoenix's interim dividend 1.5 times. Only time will really tell whether the
growth rate of the Open business will be sufficient to achieve a total offset of the run-off
of our Heritage business.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd advise investors not to focus on individual component parts nor on the gradients of
various bits of the wedge. What is clear is that our new business is already delivering
incremental cash generation to Phoenix that clearly strengthens our dividend paying
capability. It remains early days, but this is the fundamental change that will enable
Phoenix to become an enduring corporation.
The drivers of further market consolidation remain compelling and we believe that the
potential market size of closed books has grown to circa GBP580 billion up from our
previous estimate of circa GBP540 billion. The growth in our estimates of the UK market
have been driven by substantial players restructuring their UK businesses, but we are also
seeing more European opportunities.
One can argue about the actual size of the market, but it is unarguably large and
consolidating. As Europe's leading life consolidator, we believe that Phoenix has a number
of competitive advantages that position us well to benefit from future industry-wide
consolidation. Our acquisition criteria are very clear. Deals must be value accretive,
support our dividend, and maintain our investment grade rating.
We will continue to maintain the price discipline that enabled us to acquire AXA Wealth,
Abbey Life, and Standard Life Assurance businesses at less than 90% of own funds.
Funding is not an issue. Phoenix has a war chest of circa GBP1 billion for acquisitions and
we have a new GBP1.25 billion revolving credit facility in place to provide funding flexibility.
I have confidence that we have the management bandwidth to do further deals and we
look forward to doing so. We are clearly open for business.
To conclude, cash remains king at Phoenix, and we estimate at least GBP12 billion of
future cash generation from the business in force today which does not include the
Page 8 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

GBP0.25 billion that Jim has referred to in new generation of cash in this first half.
The resilience of Phoenix is evidenced with a GBP3 billion Solvency II surplus and a
shareholder ratio of 160%. New business brings sustainability to our long-term cash
generation and there will be growth through M&A as the UK and European insurance
industry consolidates. We are building a more sustainable Phoenix. Just before I end,
there is a new date for your diary. We thought about October the 31st, Halloween, but it
appears that some of our stakeholders are a bit busy. So, we've chosen instead of the
28th November, when we will be hosting a Capital Markets Day and we look forward to
meeting with you all again at that date.
So, that is the end of the formal presentation. May I invite Andy and Susan to join us on
the podium. I ask for questions normal would you wait for the microphone to arrive. Then
if you could give us your name and the institution you represent and then we will answer
accordingly. Thanks.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three from me as usual, if that's okay.
Firstly just Brexit how has that affected your sellers in the UK M&A market. Are you seeing
some shutting up shop until after the outcome or desire by others just to get out while
they still can? Secondly, you mentioned your discipline in doing less than 90% of own
funds, before we have seen a transaction this week at 1.2 times own funds. Do you think
that changes the market at all or is it just a one-off quirk? And thirdly well just on BPAs, I
think, one of your peers today has talked about a five year payback period for BPAs. Is
that roughly similar for Phoenix? Thanks.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So, three questions there, I'll take the first two and Jim would you talk about the payback
on the BPAs. So, the first question is whether Brexit has changed the motivation of, and
we talk now about a UK and a European market.
The first observation to make is that we think the market has grown. So, the statistics we
gave you for the last two years were based on FSCRs of 2016 and now we base the
market sizes on FSCRs of 2018 and we see a growth in the total markets up from GBP540
billion up to GBP580 billion and we see activity in Germany, Ireland and in the United
Kingdom.
And then the question is whether Brexit changes the gears to make people more
motivated to sell their businesses and re-consolidate or whether less and I actually think
Andy there's a different component. I think it's long-term interest rates.
So, across the world we see, for all the obvious reasons macro negative headwinds. All
the evident reasons and therefore monetarists are seeking ways to ensure that growth is

Page 9 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

delivered in their economies to sustain employment and therefore interest rates are
going down.
And what interest rates do is they price capital in a different way. So, the long-term
reasons why our industry consolidates are that the old structure of asset management
companies with insurance businesses; that's the first thing that isn't going to continue.
And the second thing is, within the insurance business, open business versus closed
business that restructuring, because capital is being more accurately priced in a low
interest rate environment. And that leaves businesses with a stranded capital -- trapped
capital, stranded costs and not the skill set to deal with the administration of running off
safely heritage books.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I think those are long-term trends. And so to answer your first exam question, I see no
change in people's strategic repositioning in their businesses because of Brexit. I think,
there will continue to be a forensic review on the returns on capital, particularly in a
Solvency II environment, which makes people motivated to restructure businesses and
you've seen no lack of acceleration, no de-acceleration.
Then your second question is a harder one. It is about whether the pricing has changed
because there's been a transaction that has been advertised at 1.2 times [ph] own funds.
First observation is that Phoenix retains its price discipline. You never get back what you
pay at the wrong price going into a transaction and are evidenced in the last three years
of adhering to that price discipline, so that we protect -- immediately cash accretive, so
that we can raise our dividend, something that protects our investment grade and you
saw that by the extremely strong Fitch rating that we've got of A-plus, and finally our
capacity to pay our dividend. So, those will remain, irrespective of what we see going on
in the outside.
So, in transactions, you get different shapes of books of business and it depends upon
the rate at which cash emerges and that is very different according to each and every
deal. So I am not going to comment on the deal that has just been announced in the
marketplace, but I still think, because cash has to be released that I do not see a systemic
shift in an upward direction. I think that it is -- the transaction you are making reference to
is more to do with the specifics, the speed of release of possible cash, rather than the
market moving in itself.
Jim, do you want to talk about the payback more?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Yes, your question was in light of the comments from others this morning about a five
year payback from BPA. Our experience over the past couple of years, we've not seen in
five years, we have seen slightly longer than that; probably up to nearer 10 years in terms
of a payback, but clearly the payback varies from transaction to transaction and depends
on the structure of the liabilities being taken on, but no we haven't hit five years yet.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}
Page 10 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

Thanks.

FINAL

Q - Jonathan Hocking
Good morning, Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions please. Firstly
on Europe, could you comment a little bit about how you think about the European
opportunity? You sound a little bit more, I guess, upbeat about it than previously. And then
how you actually get over the conundrum of doing the first transaction in Europe, given
your price discipline, because some of your private peers in Europe have already done
several transactions. I just wonder how you get close to replicating the scale you've got in
the UK on the continent?
Secondly, looking at the synergy target, you're 85% of the way to the capital synergy
target and you haven't yet harmonized internal models, which sounds very conservative.
Could you talk a little bit, generally, about that harmonization process? I guess, it's not as
easy as taking a company from standard formula to internal model. But how should we
think about that? Are you just being super conservative or actually are you already pretty
much aligned on the critical assumptions between the two companies? And then just
finally on the workplace business, given we've had the increase in the contribution rate in
April, I am just interested in whether you've had actually more people opting out or
whether the very high opt in rate has continued that we've seen so far? Thank you.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon, that turned into four questions.

Q - Jonathan Hocking
I'm sorry.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

All right. 33% uplift there, just so we get the maths right. Susan is going to answer the
workplace question. Jim, would you take the internal model harmonization, timetable,
expected outcomes etc.? First time our friends at the PRA have ever actually had to
manage two internal models coming together, because Standard Life Assurance only had
one. And then I will deal with your first two questions.
The first one is the nature of the European opportunities and the second question was
how do you get into the game if your pricing is at a different point. So I don't want to
overcook Europe, you go fishing where you find the most fish and where you have the
most relevant skills. And so of that GBP580 billion, we believe GBP390 billion is in the UK.
That's not a surprise, the UK has been Europe's largest insurance market and has the
oldest annuities with profits etc. businesses, so that is where we intend to fish first,
because we have the greatest relevant scale and it is easiest for us to transfer relevant
capabilities.
When we go to Germany, Germany is the next largest market of about GBP160 billion, so
about 25%, and Ireland is much smaller at about GBP30 billion. So, what we are seeing in
Page 11 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

Europe, long-term interest rates and you know what's happening in Germany is that the
regulators are seeking ways in which to restructure the business, you've seen it in Holland
and I see for the first time you've mentioned private equity, but there is evidence of
regulators seeing consolidation as a way of repositioning the industry and the owners of
those business. So, we talk about foreign insurance companies, a French insurance
company owning something in Germany or a German insurance company owning
something in Italy, looking at their own capital returns. And it's that lens, which is driving
owners who had businesses that had trapped capital, stranded costs, low market shares,
saying, is there a way out strategically.
So, I don't want to overcook Europe. We think Europe is 10 years behind where the United
Kingdom is. So, this is a slow burn, but as Europe's leading life consolidator, there is an
optionality that we have today that we did not have a year ago.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then the second question is, how do you get into something if prices seem to be done at
a different price point? The deals in Europe are very different, because of the nature of
what one could say is under-funding capital positions. So, instead of looking at greater
capital synergies, which we can generate in the UK through our own internal model,
model harmonization, we are looking at different asset-backed strategies. You have a
cost-driven requirement, so it is cost synergies, and therefore, you cannot do business in
Europe unless you have a pre-existing asset. We have them in Ireland and in Germany. So,
again, you have to be very cautious and that other people will pay X is going to never be
a driver for the Phoenix Group, we will pay what is right for us as and when those
opportunities present themselves. Jim, do you want to?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Yes, your question was on the benefits from the internal model harmonization. So, within
the transition program, we have an overall synergy target of GBP1.2 billion. Of that
GBP720 million relates to capital synergies and to-date we have delivered GBP610 million,
and we remain very confident about our ability to deliver that GBP720 million. It's a very
big program, but it's been going very well thus far.
We've said from the outset that, that synergy target assumes a zero impact from
combining the two independent Solvency II internal models, the old Phoenix model and
the Standard Life model, and that remains the case in our thinking. We are making good
progress in terms of bringing those internal models together. We're working very
collaboratively with the PRA. It's the first time it's been done in this country, first time for
us, and first time I think for the PRA.
We've always felt it was prudent to assume a zero position on the basis that both models
have already been approved by the PRA and therefore, there is theoretically, obviously, a
prospect capital requirements could go up, but we hope that would be unlikely, but it
would be presumptuous of us to second guess the outcome of the discussions with the
PRA. You would think on the face of it that it's not unreasonable to assume there will be a
diversification benefit from bringing both businesses together and we very much hope
that will be the case. So, we travel in hope, but we feel it prudent to assume zero at this
stage.
Page 12 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

Our plan, as I said earlier, was we are going to submit our pre-application before the end
of this year into the PRA with the formal application round about the end of quarter one,
gives them six months to review that, so in the second half of the year we would hope to
have that result, that remains a very challenging timetable, but one in which we at this
stage feel we can meet.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Susan?

A - Susan McInnes

{BIO 19698729 <GO>}

So, your last question was about opt out rates for workplace and auto-enrollment and just
as a reminder in '18 that rate went from 2% to 5% and in '19 went from 5% to 8%. Our
assumption was that we would have seen a slight increase in opt out when we moved to
8%, but we haven't seen that increase. To-date it remains tracking at just less than 10%
overall in terms of opt out, and that's kind of consistent across the industry. We will
continue to watch it but as it stands just now we've not seen an increase.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Good morning. Ming Zhu from Panmure Gordon. Three questions please. First, on those
deals that you didn't win recently, apart from pricing was something else in it we should
be aware of. And if your competitors continue to be willing to pay more than you do, I
mean, going forward with other deals and opportunities in the market where does that
leave Phoenix going forward? And my second question is on Europe and what sort of deal
status are you willing to be looking at to test the water, and if you don't do anything in the
next few years would you look a change in your -- look at other strategic options such as
disposing Europe and get your capital back to the Group centre? And my third question is
based on your cash generation target guidance under the slide 32, the wedge diagram,
what is stopping you paying a progressive dividend?

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

The P word, not the S word, stable and sustainable. So, Ming, thanks very much for your
three questions. We never comment on transactions, period. With regards to your first
question, this has always been a competitive environment and there are different buyers
and different sellers. So, Phoenix's strategy and pricing strategy therein, transaction
strategy and pricing strategy is not going to be governed by other people's activities, end
of story.
Then your second question is more nuanced. I don't want to overcook Europe. We've said
that Europe is ten years behind where we are in the UK, that you don't go out to bat
unless you have a pre-existing asset in the territory where relevant. And going back to
Jon's question, how do you test the water? Well, we'll find out when there is an
opportunity that we think we're equipped to deliver safely for our shareholders.
The second part of your second question was, would over time, if position changed,
would we look at the strategic options of selling our European assets? Well, that's not on
the table right now, because as Europe's leading life consolidator we believe that Europe
Page 13 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

has the opportunity. And there is a real difference between being a UK PLC and the
governance and the capital backing versus being a private equity firm. And so we think
that bring to bear, as I said, in my penultimate slide that we bring a set of skills, which are
attractive to vendors and their regulators in Europe, but time will tell.
And of course if the world changes and of course there are a range of strategic options in
terms of further acquisitions or divestments, but they are certainly not in our lens right
now. And then you asked about our dividend policy. So, I'd make three observations.
The first is that we've been very clear that it's stable and sustainable. That's what you'd
expect from our business. We have given guidance that our SCCR ratio will be
somewhere between 140% and 180%. We're bang on the money at 160%. North of 180%
then it would be for the Board to review whether they would change their mind.
The third point is that we are at a very early stage in proving whether our cash generation
will dampen -- offset, dampen the rate of runoff of our Heritage business. And so it would
be far too early to move towards a progressive or a growth dividend, those would be the
three observations I'd make.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then as Jim pointed out that if you take our dividend we have raised the dividend
four times in seven years, that is equivalent to an annual increase of about 4.8% and
we've done that, that has been principally triggered by corporate transactions,
restructuring our debt in 2013, and then three subsequent, corporate transactions
thereafter.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Thanks. Dominic O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Three questions, if that's all right. One
very specific one. Jim, you mentioned in the management actions disclosures and benefit
for the closure of the FCA investigations. I wonder if you could give us some ballpark
indication of how important a contributor that was? And secondly, sorry, to go back to
Europe, but in Germany I was wondering if you saw any change in BaFin's attitude as a
result or following the closure of the Viridium Generali deal? That's a market where
transactions take a long, long time to get regulatory approval. I'd be interested to hear
your views on whether anything's changed there. And then a third question, you've
always, in terms of M&A you always acquired books from other primary insurers. Clearly
another opportunity you could imagine would be acquiring other consolidators. Is there
any consideration you would take into account in that sort of transaction that would differ
or would essentially evaluate that in terms of the same dynamics and would there be any
sort of other stumbling factors or bottlenecks for that sort of transaction? Thank you.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Jim?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

So, the first question was about within the management actions, benefits, the impact of
the closure of FCA investigations. What that refers to was the Abbey Life business, which
Page 14 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

as you know when we acquired that business was an enforcement in relation to the
annuities review and an investigation into the legacy product review. These reviews are
now complete and we've come out of them on the right side and we've been able to
release some GBP20 million of capital that's no longer required as a result of the
completion of the reviews.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So, Dominic, your two questions, first about Europe, and you went to Germany and BaFin.
I am not going to overcook Europe, so I am going to say ten years behind, and it
represents a much smaller Germany. It's 25% of the total market compared to the UK
70% and Ireland is 5%. So, I always want to put that our priority remains in the UK.
So, let's take Germany, I think, transactions take a long time. Our conversations with BaFin
and the CBI, the regulator in Ireland are of course entirely private and will remain so. But
what is clear is because of the cost dynamic going back to the nature of the lack of
available capital synergies in Germany becomes much more about cost.

Bloomberg Transcript

The regulator therefore is extremely focused, acutely focused on customer outcomes so
that there is no instability in the technology platform, which delivers per policy
administration at a lower cost and they have to ensure, quite right, that there's no
detriment to customers.
Customers have to be what we're about and that's true in the UK, true in Germany as it is
in the UK. So, if you ask about our conversations with regulators, I am not surprised by
their focus. They get the corporate finance aspects and why people want to do deals,
their focus is on enterprise stability when you're doing complex technological migrations
and ensuring that there is no detriment to customer outcomes.
Then your third question was about, if we were to buy another consolidator. Well, there
are not an enormous number of consolidators in this space, and you asked whether we
would use a different set of criteria and the answer is no.
Clearly, in-sector deals, you can look to greater cost consolidation because you've got
two businesses doing the same thing. The capital synergies would be a function of
Internal Models or standard formula depending, but we would apply the same criteria to
doing an in-sector deal rather than buying from a vendor.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Good morning. Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions please. First on cash
generation. Does the new upper end guidance includes any mortality gain? Second, on
mortality, in slide ten you set out that a six month drop in life expectancy equates to
GBP500 million in cash generation and the CMI 18 when those tables were published
dropped life expectancy by six months. So, we have the maths is pretty easy, a GBP500
million release and our numbers consensus don't have anything like that. And the
argument that the release when you put that through won't be GBP500 million is that
your book is wealthier than the average -- than the general population there, in the past
Page 15 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

your mortality releases have exceeded the releases that you would have reported if you
had a slice of the general population, so why will the future be different to the past, and
just to finish on the dividend yield, it's recently dropped below, let's say, legal and
general, as you've got two different strategies there, and now it's quite a bit below, it's 70
basis points below. Your hedging is very tight, relative to your peers, and but you could
also say that the market's view of a back book consolidator's cost of equity is lower than it
applies to an annuity business. So, how does that feed into your view for your future
annuity growth?

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Fine. So, would you take the first two, Jim, and I'll do the last?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Yes. So, in relation to cash generation, the target for 2019 is to GBP600 million to GBP700
million and we've pointed you towards the upper end of that range, that GBP600 million
to GBP700 million assumes no benefit from any mortality release and the statement
we're saying at the upper end of the range, equally assumes no benefit from that
mortality release.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think as you say Gordon, I think, I wish it was that straightforward that we could just take
the CMI tables and just translate them straight through to get a simple answer such as
you've suggested, but it is a lot more complex than that.
And therefore I don't think there is necessarily a direct read through to the GBP500
million that you suggest. Standard Life and Phoenix, old Phoenix, are on two different
bases of mortality tables. They both roughly come out to the same position in terms of
reserving, but there's an awful lot of work that we're undertaking at the present time to
harmonize the approach to longevity assumptions across the Group.
So, it's on a common basis, that work will complete in the second half of the year, and
also pick up the impact of CMI 18. So, I don't want to give a figure because that work's still
underway at this stage, but clearly at the year-end results we'll update you on that
position.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So, Gordon, thank you. The question had two parts actually. One was about the dividend
and the yield, and then about capital and then backing in, if I heard it correctly, about
where we ended up on annuity and capital backing and our BPA strategy. So, let's take in a
chunk. We've announced a dividend interim of 23.4 pence per share unchanged, and on
an annualized basis that's GBP338 million worth of dividend payable in a calendar year.
Our yield is a function of the underlying stock and it is our investors who decide what the
value of our stock is. So, I make no comment other than that. We agree with your
observation that because we don't have a new business capital strain, we don't have, I am
going to say, overseas subsidiaries in the same way that perhaps a Pru does, that a
consolidator runs itself at an SCR at a lower level than the comparables.
Page 16 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

And I think it is worth looking at the gross inflows into our business that Jim talked about
at GBP4 billion and the capital charge was GBP37 million. So, that is why we said that we
would run an open business differently, we don't own platforms, we don't own sales
forces, what we do is underwrite and do policy administration.
Our shop window is run by Standard Life Aberdeen for which we are immensely grateful.
So, we prosecute an open business in a different way, and as we said two years ago or a
year and a half ago when we announced the acquisition that we would write it in a capital
light manner and that will continue to be the case. So, we don't have the capital strain that
some of our peer group or competitors in the open business may have. You also noticed
the word resilience and hedging, we removed equity risk [ph] because we don't think
that's the business we're in. That made us look really dim when equity markets were
going up and makes us look a little less dim when equity markets are coming down and
we take appropriate hedging, but not to the same extent on interest rate and credit
spreads.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we run a resilient business where at the heart of it we protect solvency, why? Because
that solvency lake is the draw-down where we will cash for years to come, which is
currently we estimate in-force business without doing any more deals, any more open
business stands at GBP12 billion and there is not included in that GBP12 billion the quarter
of a billion that has been achieved in the first half of this year.
Then you've asked about BPA and I think that's really interesting. For those of you who are
keen eyed, we've done GBP460 million of BPA, that was a capital commitment of GBP32
million, and over time it will generate capital cash flows of GBP90 million, that's an
exceptional performance. It's a new business for us and just outside the first half in July
we closed a further GBP230 million of BPA.
We committed to the market that we'd be very selective in the deals we do, but they
would be proportionate for our size, and that we would fund it from our own money. So,
we expect to spend about GBP100 million of capital this year, which will be about GBP750
million to GBP1 billion of liabilities. And what is instructive for me is last year at this stage
we'd done about GBP470 million of liabilities, GBP10 million more, but it had cost us
GBP62 million worth of capital rather than the GBP32 million that we've spent in this half.
So, what my colleagues, my able colleagues in the BPA is then going for value not volume,
so we are looking very carefully at the liabilities we take on-board, thinking immensely
hard about the illiquids that we put against them, position the cost of our money and the
degree of reinsurance that we take.
And that is what you would want from our business. We never want to have a big market
share, we're somewhere between 3% and 5% in the BPA market, and that is appropriate,
that's about GBP1 billion a year, GBP100 million of capital, and it's the value that we get
out of it. So in that quarter of a billion pounds of new cash generation GBP90 million
comes from BPA, GBP145 million from our UK business and GBP15 million comes from our
Irish business.

Page 17 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

And that gives us, I used the phrase carefully in my summary when I said about the
wedge, it's not the gradient, it's not the individual components, we now have an
optionality to drive the business forward in a way that gives us clearly a more sustainable
dividend that we did not have 18 months ago. Jim, have I left anything out on the capital
aspect of the backing of what we're doing in the annuities business, and have I answered
your question, Gordon?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

No, no, I think there's obviously a number of components when you're pricing a BPA deal,
but it was the price itself, the way in which we think about reinsurance and the illiquid
assets. I think all that's come to play in driving the result we saw in the first half of the year.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Comfy?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Steven Haywood from HSBC. Three questions please. Are you now
more open to buying open businesses because of your open UK book? First question.
Second question, on the CMI tables, the CMI 18 has had a change in scope versus the CMI
17. How do you think about that and do you take that into consideration when you're
thinking about adopting these new tables in the second half of this year? And I think the
change in scope, if you did it on a like-for-like basis it would decrease life expectancy by
two months rather than six months. And then third question, a bit of a technical question
on your Solvency II sensitivity to a fall in interest rates. 80 basis points fall in interest rates
leads to a negative GBP100 million on the solvency surplus, but it leads to a five
percentage points fall on the ratio, this five percentage points fall on the ratio has
increased since the start of this year. Can you explain any sort of issues going on here and
whether or not there's an overlay of convexity happening there considering where the UK
ten year rates have got to? And considering you target a 140% to 180% Solvency II ratio
rather than actually a solvency surplus. Should we be focusing more on the Solvency II ratio
forward if interest rates fall going forwards? Thank you.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So, three questions. Jim, you'll take the last one if you'd be so kind. Sorry, there are two
questions on the CMI and the life releases, I'll share it with Andy, and then the second one
is on the solvency ratio. Perhaps, Andy, you want to comment.
So, on the open business that you ask are we now more inclined to look broader in terms
of the M&A, cast our net more widely, so let's go back to AXA. The first statement is
we're in the business of solving vendors strategic, delivering on their strategic objectives.
Vendors, when they're restructuring their business wish to move away from the track
capital stranded cost skill set and hand that opportunity over to us, challenge for the
vendor. And so if we go back to AXA in 2016, there was a small open business, Sun Life
Direct. That has prospered, why, and so going back to 2016 we are open to that and
clearly Standard Life brings with it an enormous open business. But we do prosecute the
Page 18 of 21



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

FINAL

open business in a different way, not being in a Marxian sense owning the convenience of
production because those are owned by our friends at Standard Life Aberdeen really
reduces our exposure to mis-selling, sales costs, platform operation etc.
So, we're very clear that we are open to owning open businesses, but they have to be
repositioned and managed so that they are appropriate for a life consolidator such as
ourselves. And we have been successful both with Standard Life and immensely proud of
what is going on with our friends at Standard Life Aberdeen and what has been achieved
by Standard Life Assurance. That's how I'd answer that question.
Jim do you want to take the next one?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

So, the second question was a very specific question about the CMI tables and their
scope. Clearly, we will take the scope of the CMI tables into account in determining the
longevity release. It's not necessarily just a straight read across that happens, it's only one
into the deliberations that go on to determine the most appropriate longevity
assumptions. So, the nature of the tables will be taken into account.

Bloomberg Transcript

But as I've said earlier it's too early to quote a figure for that. Your third question was
relating to the interest rate sensitivity, so the sensitivity against our capital position is that
an UK bps fall would reduce the surplus by GBP0.1 billion and 5% on the SCR. What we are
concerned about is the absolute surplus, the amount, clearly the ratio is just a function of
numbers, but it's the absolute pounds surplus that we seek to protect.
The 5% is really just a function of how the component parts of the calculations work
through between own funds and SCR, but what we're seeking to do at all times is protect
the absolute level of surplus.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

And Steve I'd add to that, that we've seen this movie before, 2016, so we started the
year with a ten-year swap rate, which is our referent rate at about 127 bps and it went
down to 65 post-Brexit, there has not been an equivalent movement yet. I am not saying
where it will end up to, we ended that year with a solvency, I think, at 140, 139 and that
was a year when we did two transactions. So, we've always hedged to protect solvency,
we have management actions, we did GBP350 million worth of management actions. The
larger component of that GBP240, we're protecting our own funds and that's what we
would expect us to do in a low interest rate environment. But low interest environment
absolutely crush our industry. Just coming. I hope we have three questions. I'm maintaining
this and just go for it, Oliver.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, it's sort of one question and a request. To help us calculate our version of
your wedge and it would be useful, this is the request to have a better timeline on the
future cash flows beyond 2023. That's the request as I say on the existing forecasts
you've given. Talking about the extra GBP250 million of cash flows that you've added in
Page 19 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

the first half you've given us some sort of guidance implicitly on the bulk annuity deal
around the timing of future cash flows around that. So, I wonder, if you can also give us
timings around the remaining GBP160 million of future cash flows or at least give us some
sort of indication on the age group of the average customers contributing? And actually,
sorry, this is the extra half question, the new business profit on the open business looks
suspiciously close to the future cash flows. So I just want to sort of check what's going on
there, the new business profit I assume includes all the future regular premiums you
expect on new pension contributions, but I am wondering what the future cash flows
relate to? Do those capture all of the future regular premiums or just the regular
premiums you've generated in the half year?

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So, Jim you're being tempted by Oliver. So, just hold on to yourself here to go beyond 23
in terms of cash flow forecast, then an analysis, I put up the slide 29 on going through
cash flows. And then Susan perhaps you may want to make a comment on the last one
about the new business and the margins which I think are around 21 bps compared to the
8 bps in our heritage.

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me just come to them in reverse order. In terms of the new business profit that's
written during the period if there was regular premium business where we'd take account
of the future regular premiums.
In terms of the GBP250 million of cash generation that was the bulk annuities in response
to Andy's question. I think we said we're seeing here a ten years as opposed to others
five. I think the open business the payback period for that is longer so it's probably in the
10 to 15 year mark.
And finally on the wedge we note your request for a better timeline beyond 2023, I think,
we did very well to give you very specific guidance out to 2023 but we'll give it due
consideration.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Better note. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have said that, I do apologize, that's a translation. Are
there any more questions? So, listen, we end today immensely proud of what Phoenix has
achieved. These are strong, successful results for the first half and we very much look
forward to seeing you, not on Halloween, but on the Thursday the 28th of November.
Take care. Thank you very much.

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 20 of 21



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-07

Page 21 of 21

