Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

Q3 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

John Robert Dacey, Group Chief Financial Officer
Thomas Bohun, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Darius Satkauskas , Analyst
Edward Morris , Analyst
Iain Pearce , Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Paris Hadjiantonis , Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good morning or good afternoon. Welcome to Swiss Re's Nine Months 2020 Results
Conference Call. Please note that today's conference call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to John Dacey, Group CFO. Please
go ahead.

John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Thank you very much and good morning or good afternoon to everyone from me as well.
I am here with, Thomas Bohun our new Head of Investor Relations to talk you through the
nine-months 2020 Results.
Before we go to the Q&A, I'd just like to make a few quick remarks about the release we
put out this morning. You've all seen that the Group reported a net loss of CHF691 million
for the first nine months of 2020, which reflects a strong performance in the third quarter,
a net income of CHF444 million.

Page 1 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

In addition to the COVID-19 reserves -- sorry, the additions to the COVID-19 reserves,
amounted to CHF428 million in the third quarter, bringing the total to nearly CHF3 billion
for the nine months period.

FINAL

I'd just reiterate that 67% of these reserves remain IBNRs. Excluding the impact of COVID19 the Group net income increased to $1.6 billion for the nine months, up from $1.3 billion
for the prior year.
P&C's ROE excluding COVID-19 was 15.5%, the business remains on track for 97%
combined ratio in 2020. We're positive about the improving market conditions. Life and
Health Re's -- ROE excluding the COVID-19 losses was 9.7%, with a strong premium
growth of 6% supported by large transactions. I know, the course [ph] turnaround
continues to progress with an ex-COVID combined ratio for the year of 96%, and a
normalized combined ratio that's significantly better than the 105% estimate for 2020,
that we provided at the beginning of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Life Capital, we successfully closed the ReAssure sale in July and Life Capital is paid up
to the Group dividend of $1.5 billion. We continue to build out the open book business with
year-to-date premium growth of almost 20%. We continue to navigate the financial
market volatility with an ROI of 3.4%, an ongoing active portfolio management to maintain
the quality of the credit portfolio in particular.
The impairments for the third quarter were zero on that credit portfolio, the impairments
year-to-date, were only 27 million on the portfolio -- that's in excess of $30 billion. Swiss
Re maintains its strong capital position with the SST ratio of 223% as of the 1st of July. We
noted that the ratio remained above the Group target level of 220% throughout the third
quarter, and I'd simply reiterate the 220% is a target, it's not a limit for us.
And with that, I'll hand it over to Thomas to manage the Q&A.

Thomas Bohun
Thank you, John and hello from to you from my side as well. Before we start the Q&A, I
would like to remind you to please restrict yourselves to two questions each and then
register again, should you have follow-up questions.
With that, operator, could we please take the first question.

Questions And Answers
Operator
The first question comes from the line of Andrew Ritchie with Autonomous. Please go
ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}
Page 2 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

Oh, hi there. Two questions please. The first one, John, I'm just interested in, if you could
give us a framework for thinking about second-wave type impacts from COVID from a
loss point of view. Now, I appreciate things like event cancellation is more a prolongation
of the first wave. But may be just a framework is to how you're thinking about second
wave potential losses.
I'm wondering, for example, does it matter, that it could be defined as a second event.
And obviously, I suppose you've got some exclusions in place that went in place before.
So, just some sense for that would be useful.
The second question on Life. I just wanted to get a sense is the -- you've obviously been
booking mortality charges as the notifications have come through, are there any concerns
about the outlook for morbidity arising from COVID and what it could mean for in longterm health effects and whether that would have an effect on your results. Thanks.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Andrew. One, I start on the life and health and provide a little bit of color there
and try to address your specific question. What we've seen is a -- well, to start with -- our
major exposure for mortality in our Life and Health portfolio is in the US, with a secondary
exposure in the UK. The increases in cases and potential increases in deaths and Europe
will be unfortunate, but probably won't have a lot of effect on our overall COVID charges.
Back in the US, what we see is that in the second quarter when we booked approximately
$500 million of reserves, we expected a higher incidence of insured losses in the last
month of the quarter, in June than we actually what we experienced. And so found
ourselves with a little bit of a pause coming into the third quarter in retrospect. The third
quarter itself, we've booked the losses that we saw come through in July and August
largely according to plan, and have an IBNR effectively up for the month of September.
So, overall, is -- mortality rates are close to what we expected. We've got a new
Parameterization maybe that would help you and other analysts would suggest it, at least
in the US with a -- for 100,000 excess deaths, we would expect about $200 million of
pre-tax losses.
And that seems to be a more precise estimate, given the evidence, we've seen through
the third quarter. On morbidity, we are concerned about long-term impacts of COVID-19,
and Health, and the long holders already provided some indication that -- there maybe
subsequent health problems, where people who have been affected, infected, I think at
this point in time, it's just premature to be able to make any serious modeling of what that
might mean for our portfolio, but it's an issue, which we are looking to track closely and
we've continued to access experts around the world to see what information, -- new
information might be available for us to ascertain what additional challenges are going to
be on the morbidity dimension, as well as effects of long-term mortality.
Your first question was related to the second wave. I think, the framework you might one
comes a little bit from what we were able to -- what we did book in the third quarter,
where you see migration away from the property losses, related to the business
Page 3 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

interruption into some combination of the event cancellation and potential credit and
surety.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So the events will proceed or actually not proceed as a result of the pandemic and those
losses will continue through the fourth quarter with probably some carryover into 2021. I
would guess at this point.
On credit and surety, we've booked in the third quarter between the P&C Re -- and
CorSo another nearly $50 million of losses. I think, as you see more long-term economic
damage and related to defaults [ph] you will see more losses here, i.e., the wildcard
continues to be the interplay between national programs, especially in Europe, which is
supporting trade credit specifically and the assisting companies that are -- may be
otherwise near defaults. So we'll see how that plays-out. Mortality, I think I've mentioned in
terms of the play and then your -- I think fundamental question is to what degree, we think
a second wave will trigger additional losses in the profit [ph] -- the business interruption.
And there, I simply will observe the level of IBNRs that are currently up on our property
books, P&C Re overall with all of the positions are have a IBNRs of over 80%, 87% -- I think
is what we've disclosed and it's unclear how these claims are coming in. We believe this is
our exposure, but in many cases, we're still waiting for the presentation of the claims, the
agreement of what the occurrence might have been to trigger it and the accumulation
that's appropriate for it.
So, absent a massive long-term lockdown across western economies. I don't think, you'll
see a repeat of the kinds of numbers that we've put out in the second quarter. We
anticipate some modest movements, what you saw in the third quarter for business
interruption across P&C Re and CorSo was an additional, close to $50 million and that's
the kind of the unfortunate muddling along, we would expect absent something more
dramatic occurring.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Andrew. Could we have the next question please.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Kamran Hossain from RBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. Two questions, the first one is on CorSo. I guess, underlying you talked about some
96% combined big improvement. I guess, first of the half year and definitely, well below
your target for the year. And do you think this is just tailwinds from best of frequency or
should we -- put the 96% in our numbers back, say then at pricing so that's kind of
question one.
And then the second question in P&C Re. I guess at the half year you had 1.5 billion of
COVID claims only 1.6 billion at the nine month stage. Was there a positive development --

Page 4 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

or did you just kind of change your assumptions based on kind of how things or how
claims are coming in. Thank you.

FINAL

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Thanks Kamran. On CorSo, I'd say, yes. We do seem to have some tailwinds, it's actually
somewhat challenging for us just understand the nature of the relatively low level of manmade losses in particular in the quarter and something we saw to a lesser degree in the
second quarter of this year.
May be that these claims are late in being reported. It may be that the lower levels of
economic activity, in the spring and early summer simply have meant that there are fewer
losses. But I would strongly encourage you not to take a 96%, as a starting point, we don't
think that's a new normal. We've set ourselves, you take COVID out and you get to 96%
but you make some adjustments for what has been a -- modestly positive prior year
development and a more normal level of man-made losses and -- you're still well below
the 105% guidance we gave you. But you're materially above the 96%.

Bloomberg Transcript

So -- it's the starting point on there. With respect to the COVID losses for P&C Re. What, I
can say is, Q3 was largely coherent with what we thought -- at mid-year would be a playout of COVID losses. I think, you're right, the P&C Re numbers are a bit light. But we didn't
necessarily expect a lot to be coming there in the quarter, where we have continued
exposure, I believe, is on subsequent credit and surety losses, potentially something in
some other lines, but the business interruption again, we believe strongly that the
triggering event, where the governmental lockdowns has occurred in the second quarter
of last -- of this year.
And we reserved aggressively related to that triggering events. And so, if that's the
occurrence, and we're comfortable in the third quarter. There really wasn't much other
mechanism-virus [ph] also exposed.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Kamran. Could we have the next question please.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Paris Hadjiantonis from BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Yes, hi, John. Hi. Thomas from my side as well. Hope you're doing well. Firstly, on capital
and capital returns. Obviously, if you are going to, well, most likely, you're going to have a
net loss for the full year, depending on how the last quarter develops.
At the same time, your SST is slightly above your targets. Can you basically explain to also
[ph] -- explain the thinking behind dividend (inaudible) into this year. What -- can you

Page 5 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

essentially tell us about -- you still consider the dividend you're paying to shareholders
being one of the good -- (inaudible) told the equity story, we seen Swiss Re despite all
the losses that we're seeing due to COVID this year.
And then secondly, I mean, on COVID, from a SST perspective, I know, there's an
assumption in there -- regarding additional losses, can you give us an idea where those
additional losses are coming from high -- my initial assumption is likely, but I don't know,
whether you have an assumption about P&C and CorSo in there as well. Thank you.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Sure. So let me start with the second question, if you will. On the SST calculation, you're
correct, we have a expectation of future losses coming from COVID baked into there. As I
mentioned our third quarter totaled 428% was coherent with what we expected it in midyear with what [ph] the third quarter loss, could look like.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so we've gone ahead and projected out for the full year, and in some cases, into
2021. I think, the nature of those losses expected in the first case, -- as you say, some
increased continuing mortality related to the fact of the pandemic is ongoing, people
unfortunately are still dying of the virus. It involved other losses in P&C Re and Corporate
Solutions is clearly the event cancellations. We've got the mapped out, quarter-by-quarter
about -- and how we think that they are likely to play out. We're not particularly optimistic
on that front.
And clearly, the credit and surety losses -- I think on property, as I mentioned in the
quarter, we didn't see much in the way of triggers for new property losses for business
interruption. We've got some model. But I think, they're mostly what we would expect is
that the IBNRs that we've currently put up will migrate in the case reserves, when we get
clear indications of legitimate claims that we're responsible for.
So that's the position. I think you should think about for future COVID claims with respect
to the modeling we've done ourselves. On capital returns, I'd observe, we've got a fairly
clear order of Capital management. The first is make sure that the Group remains
adequately solvent and capable of running its business. I think, -- I can't imagine that we
can check that box any harder, than having worked through this year, the way we have and
end up on July 1 with the SST of 223% again above the target.
I think, the second is to maintain and where appropriate increase the ordinary dividend
that -- I think remains an important part of our capital management and then simply
reiterate that we've already accrued 50% of next year's dividend in the SST calculation as
of 1 of July. The second part would be accrued during the second half of 2020.
I think, we believe there are important growth opportunities for us, we've been pleasantly
surprised on CorSo that the volumes have not contracted, as much as you would have
expected when you're pruning a third of the portfolio. Thanks to the price increases and
there has been places where we've seen some opportunities to actually grow lines of
business, which we're comfortable with.

Page 6 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

But premiums overall remain down year-on-year. Instead [ph] on P&C Re were up. Net
premiums earned 9% in the first nine months. We think the pressures in the market for
continued price increases into the January 1 renewals are strong, and we will look to see
how we can grow that business. But growing our business in an orderly manner does not
conflict at all with our ability to paying dividend.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Paris. Could we have the next question please.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Ivan Bokhmat from Barclays. Please go ahead.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Hi. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. I've got two smaller questions. The first one,
could you please talk about the reserve developments over the third quarter, maybe the
underlying reserve strength. I understand that there has been some additions, maybe you
could talk separately about lines like specialty and separately about the US casualty, which
we've spend some time in the past.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second question, it's on the investment result. Let me, see [ph]-- already some
volatility in the fourth quarter, just wondering if you could maybe outline what's kind of
hedging strategy you've had in place. Should we expect the same successful navigating of
that volatility -- as we saw in the first half of the year. Thank you.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Sure. So on the reserve development, what you saw in or what we've experienced in the
third quarter was a -- I'd say a modest negative prior year development for P&C Re, which
was dominated by our decision actually after the close in the first part of October to
adjust an existing reserve that we set up for a major aviation loss, where there is new
information came to the market to ourselves as well.
We thought, we been conservative, but the major increase in the expected loss that was
communicated to us -- had us push another fairly significant amount into that reserve. That
reserve dominated the negative for P&C Re. And if you take it out, I'll leave it with what I
would call a red-zero. In Corporate Solutions we had a black-zero on prior year
development, a modest release.
Overall for the group, if you take out the aviation increase, we were still at a black-zero.
So give you a sense that there is just not been a lot of movements, other than this one,
very specific issue, which I think you can probably piece together. With respect to the
investment result, during the course of the second quarter into the third quarter, we've
removed a fair amount of the hedges that we had up or put up starting in February of this
year. We still have part of the equity portfolio hedged. I think, we've come down a little
more on the credit side, having watched what the Fed's actions have met for investment
grade credit pricing. I think, most important there is the adjustments we made to the
Page 7 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

credit exposures and trading out actually is started in 2019, but continuing in the first
quarter -- and early second quarter of 2020 to remove ourselves from the most
vulnerable sectors and we've remain very comfortable with that.
So I think, I already mentioned on behalf of Guido Furer and his team, the great result in
the quarter of zero impairments on the credit book for the quarter. I think, we are
continuing to feel fairly comfortable about our positioning. There's obviously volatility in
the market that I would expect will continue through next week. Let's hope, it settles
down. But if it doesn't settle down, we're still, -- I think reasonably cautious in the
positioning that we've got for our investment portfolio.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Ivan. Could we have the next question please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Iain Pearce from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Two from me. Just trying to understand on the
assumptions around second lockdowns that you've made in the SST. And if there is an
expectation of second lockdowns that you've baked into SST number, you've reported.
And then on that [ph] as well, just in terms of geographical exposures between sort of
France, Germany, UK where you see the biggest risks to your book around second
lockdowns.
And then second one, on Covid losses, I noticed that the credit and surety loss and the
other loss in Q3 actually decreased in P&C Re. So I'm just want to understand what's
happened there please.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

On the second one, the decreases that you referenced, I think, were fairly trivial amounts
maybe, less than $10 million and the positions. There is nothing really to say there other
than just maybe some true ups of some modeling. But I wouldn't read much into it other
than -- we were very close and there are some people [ph] continue to like precision and
might make an adjustment of $8 million along the way.
On the second lock-down. It's been modeled. We did not assume the kinds of lockdowns
that we saw in March and April, and to recur. What we expected was some partial
lockdowns in certain regions of which would affect economic activity, but not wholesale
reduce it. I think, the geographic exposures, we see what we've -- what we're seeing todate is that in the United States, our exposures are limited in part by the relatively high
attachment points for the excess of loss treaties that we've got in place. And by the fact
that the legal system seems to be maintaining a fairly, a literal interpretation of wording
on the primary insurers contracts.
Page 8 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

And so there -- the exposure seems to be contained. I think, what we saw in the UK courts
-- the FCA rulings was a -- as I mentioned a bit of a mixed bag that we anticipated. I don't
think, we've -- we're surprised, even though it was maybe marginally more in favor of the
insureds than the insurers, other than we might have modeled. But we remain fairly
comfortable. We didn't expect this to be clean in the following quarters. And so, our midterm estimates suggest that there will be some additional losses along the way, but not a
wholesale lock-down.
So if that's the case, we're going to have to go back and evaluate what those exposures
are. A second lock-down of the same duration, same scale, same scope is likely to have a
less costly charge to us in part because of business that has renewed in April, and June
and July.
Obviously, the January 1 renewals are coming forward and again there -- the contractual
wording, you should expect to be even tighter than what might have been existing with
respect to exposure [ph] to pandemics.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Iain. Could we have the next question please.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question comes from the line of Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. Please go
ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon John. Just two sort of follow-ups, please. First one is on the US
mortality. So I mean, trying to understand how worse it has become in the last few weeks
even on the excess mortality side, CDC data, I can check ran up to only 17th, October.
I mean, how are you thinking about this risk for your numbers, because at least up to 17th,
October, it didn't look like excess mortality was very high. It might have gotten worse. I
mean, are you -- how do you reserved for the -- and you just wait for your -- begins to
come back to you? Or do you make some estimates? And are you able to share whether
this question was raised when you are booking the 3Q numbers. And I understand it's not
booked. But if you could just help us understand that because if questions -- keeps
coming up.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Sure.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

And second topic is just on Corporate Solutions. In the past, there have been some claims
about PG&E. And you may not want to comment one case with the other. But was that, it's

Page 9 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

just a curiosity, is that instrumental in some of the reserve movements that could have
happened in Corporate Solutions, please. Thank you.

FINAL

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Sure. So on US mortality, Vinit you're exactly right. We're doing our reserving based on allcause mortality, actual versus expected. So we're not depending upon the classification of
death -- as being a COVID death or non. I think that was especially important in the spring,
where systems were being overwhelmed and people were simply been, the people -didn't have the time to clarify the exact cause of death.
What we done through the third quarter is to estimate the number of deaths that we
expect actually occurred as of September 30. And so subsequent to that what's gone on,
in October and you're exactly right. There is a lag on the CDC Data and obviously there is
a lag on the information we receive from our primary companies, although, to be fair, they
have been on this particular topic, fairly responsive and forwarding information, they have
especially on the large dollar insured lives that might be relevant for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think, we just need to continue to monitor it -- it's a tragedy that in the US, we're back up
to 1,000 deaths per day for the last three days, and if this continues in October, in
November and December -- the rough calculation that I told you, another 200 million, per
100,000 deaths. So -- it would be a relevant calculation for the quarter.
We'll see how it plays out. Well, our hope is that some of the actions taken in individual
states will improve. It's clear that the mortality at those moment is very different than it
was in the spring wave protocols, procedures for treating patients is obviously materially
improved. At the moment health systems are not being overwhelmed with the wave that
either New York or Northern Italian hospitals might have been back in April. On the other
hand, you see stories about some of the rural hospitals in the US, some of hospitals in
urban areas in France and Spain being close to full capacity.
So we'll see how this plays out. But we're bit optimistic that actual mortality will be
contained. And we just hope on multiple dimensions that the pandemic itself comes back
under control in these jurisdictions. On the corporate Solutions the PG&E, we don't
normally specify the source. But I think, the California settlements probably was not
particularly relevant for our CorSo business, in terms of the positives were coming
through, I think what we're seeing is a series -- smaller positions, which have been trued
up for prior years.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you. Vinit. Could we have the next question please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Haid from Commerzbank. Please go
ahead.

Page 10 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much. Good afternoon to everyone. Two questions, first, also on the
solvency test. The 223%, slightly below my expectations, can you give us some moving
parts there. In particular, I'm also interested in -- did you assume higher growth in 2021
higher price increases? I think, you already commented on increased COVID-19 loss
expectations in your SST ratio?
The second question more a philosophical one actually, COVID-19 and the problem of
insuring burning houses in the new business, if the COVID-19 crisis develops well into the
2021 year, than you might find yourself in the situation of insuring burning houses, maybe
in facultative insurance you already encountered this problem that for instance business
interruption or event cancellation, but the likelihood of cancellation is extremely high. So
how do you deal with this? Do you have a long-term relationships in place? On the other
hand, you probably insured already, you insure losses, which have already which you
expect to come actually, how do you handle this problem?

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So with respect to the first question on the SST, I recognize that the consensus might
have been a few points higher. I think, there were some modest adjustments to our own
modeling, some foreign exchange movements, and maybe the most from a financial
market hedges, which might have not been transparent to people and what's come
through. I think overall four percentage point difference between where we landed in
consensus, should not be a big fixation for the market. What I think -- should be reminded
is just the overall level of the capital strength, whether it's 227% or 223% or 220% frankly.
It remains one of the most robust capital positions in the industry. And in addition to that,
I'd say, just reiterate that we faced no red-line at 220%, that's [ph] a target. We expect to
be around that over a longer period of time. But dipping below that is not a particular
cause for concern, as long as we expect to continue to move plus or minus to that
number. So that's the one -- your first question, I think.
On the second one, a couple of thoughts. One is on the event cancellation, I think, the
industry broadly, and I can say Swiss Re specifically, probably missed the -- what in
hindsight is obvious accumulation effect of a pandemic on the potential set of losses
coming through on a worldwide basis for these events that are insured.
I think, it's linked to the fact that while the pandemic itself is not a black swan event, the
simultaneous lock-down of economies for 6 weeks to 12 weeks around the world was not
something that anybody had modeled. And as a result the subsequent play-out of this
probably makes event cancellation insurance, a harder cover to obtain other than
previously. We've been very clear that we decided in the restructuring of corporate
solutions in 2019 to exit this line of business. And so the losses you see coming through,
especially through CorSo are effectively the existing book running-off and to the degree
of the people write new event insurance for 2021. My guess is there will be cautious about
exactly what gets covered, there'll be rethinking the required pricing. And in some cases,
my guess is, it's simply won't be picked up by the holders of those events, which is
unfortunate because it may create some bigger challenges to actually hosting events, but
Page 11 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

-- be [ph] that is it may -- I think we're not -- we don't expect to be particularly exposed
there.
I think more broadly on the business interruption, source of losses. Yes. The changes in
contract wording between reinsurers and primary companies, between primary
companies and their insurers, I think we'll be much clear about exclusions for pandemicrelated losses. And again, it may not be what people want, but if they want covers for
these kinds of events, the pricing is going to be dramatically different on a going forward
basis.
And the last bucket, I'd say is on the credit and surety lines of business. This is a line which
tends to re-price aggressively. People adjust exposures and this is not the first recession
that underwriters have -- had to work through and it won't be the last. So that line of
business, I think, we will continue to function. But we're probably not done with losses
there, related to COVID.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Michael. Could we have the next question please.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from the line of Thomas Fossard with
HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Two questions. The first one would be on the 1/1 renewals was, up
coming 1/1 renewals was. It's fairly a views [ph] that actually, the cyclical upturn is not led by
any massive disruption Capacity, and it's more driven by underwriting discipline. So in
these kind of environment, clearly the commercial strategy of the big players like Swiss Re
and Munich in the market at the start of next year is going to be probably, very important.
So maybe John, if you could tell us simply how you're thinking about playing the 1/1
renewals? I mean, are you looking for to benefit from business opportunities and capacity
there or is going to be a mixture or maybe just a feel if I would say Munich and Swiss Re
are going to be the one leading the market next year. And the second question would be
relation to the US elections, I'm not saying -- I'm not asking you which is going to be the
winner or your preference -- but any what could be the implications for Swiss Re, if we had
a Democrats coming to power or I mean, any thoughts on that? Thank you.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

As I'm looking around, I think I'm the only American in the room. I might be one of the few
Americans on the phone. With respect to your second question, I will retain a certain
discretion on my personal vote, although I was able to vote in the state, where I grew up,
which is, Ohio. So I'd like to think, my vote matters for this election. What I would say -- the
only thing, I guess I'd say that one Thomas is the -- anything that we -- reduces the overall
level of uncertainty in the world broadly and financial market, specifically is probably going
Page 12 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

to be a good thing. And so what I aspire is a clarity of result next week and if that clarity
exists. I think, there is a reason for us to be able to move on from the mess of getting
ready for the election to what happens next.
So, and beyond that I -- we've got a global portfolio. There is a whole lot of issues that we
think about on geopolitical issues, but sometimes it's good to be a Swiss company. And I
think that our opportunities balance out, what some of the risks might be there. With
respect to your first question. Yeah, I do expect, I'm not just Munich and Swiss. But actually
all the major reinsurers to be disciplined as we move forward. I think, there are two things
which provide, I think the -- or maybe more, if I counted out and gets to four [ph] very
quickly. Reasons for optimism for the pricing, the first is -- and maybe the most important
is the pricing in the primary market is improving.
And you see that on commercial insurance, which is by far the largest component of the
reinsurance market. And the -- whether it's major US players like Chevo [ph] or the
European players. They are getting rate increases for the risk they write, which allows
them appropriately to be able to afford, frankly higher prices for the reinsurance as part
of that equation.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second thing is, what we've seen related to COVID losses and again, we remain one
of the more reserved COVID players, but we expect there is going to be more losses
that get booked in Q4 and maybe even into 2021. The primary companies have shown a
interest in reducing other risks as then, and whether it's buying lower down on retentions
and or expanding the programs that they have reinsurance, the demand continues to be
very strong.
The third is that the alternative capital market which we access ourselves, I think, has
taken a pause, having seen another source of loss on the P&C side coming out of COVID
related property losses, which they did not anticipate and well alternative capital doesn't
shrink necessarily. It also doesn't grow. And yes, there has been some new capital coming
into the system by some start-ups. But on a relative basis, it's pretty modest. And in many
cases it's simply, I'd argue replacing capital which is otherwise been burned up by the
COVID losses. So supply remains somewhat constrained, the demand is strong. And
overall the need for covering risks given the inevitable lower investment income makes us
optimistic.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Thomas. Could we have the next question please.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Edward Morris with JP Morgan. Please go
ahead.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Page 13 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

FINAL

Hi, everyone. Few questions from me. First, can you just talk about how you're feeling
about the level of sort of pricing that you're seeing relative to loss trends. And obviously
on the NATCAT side and I think increasingly the loss experience has been higher than
expected over the last few years. And obviously there's other sources, the claims inflation
is pretty high.
And similarly the combination of low interest rates, means that you really need to keep
adding more and more on the underwriting side, just to [ph] steady margins. So I just
wonder, if you could talk about what you think the overall outlook is on margins both on a
pure underwriting sense and then an aggregate level?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then secondly, I don't know, if this is something you've given before, maybe you can
just remind me, but I know your SST ratio has an assumption of ultimate COVID claims
within it. And I was just wondering, if you could remind us what the differences between
what you've assumed the ultimate level and what we've seen so far going through the
P&L?
And then lastly if I'm allowed third question, can't (inaudible) myself to two. And the third
question, if possible. Just could you talk a little bit around the demand outlook for some
of these classes of business that has been very affected by COVID? So I would imagine
as you've talked about the terms and conditions are going to tighten a lot. I would
imagine it's very difficult to buy or possible to buy covers for COVID going forward. But
presumably people can buy cover for -- of a hypothetical pandemic events. What do you
think overall? Do you think people are going to be buying more insurance in these
products? So do you think it's actually, it is areas -- it will transpire or not really insurable
and just overall, how does that play out from a demand sense? Thank you.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

All right. So I'll take three questions because one will be a very quick answer on the SST
component of COVID, we've not disclosed the difference between our ultimate and what
we booked through again. I think, it's -- there should be some utility in the recognition that
our third quarter was coherent with what we expected, when we started this calculation
through the ultimate in our processes.
With respect to pricing, I think I got the part of it. On the previous question, but just to
reiterate, yes, the -- we see a need for continued price increases in part to cover, what
will be a decrease in contribution from asset returns but also with respect to specific
portfolio. So what we said, which remains absolutely valid at six months for our
reinsurance business, as we saw 6% notional increases, 2 percentage points of that were
sucked up by our revisions to loss models, which says, we need in more rate for that.
And 4 percentage points were covering a decrease and expected investment income for
new business. So, I think that's keeping our head above water. But it's not necessarily
making this a brilliant price increase and that's why we expect on January 1, will see
continued improvement in those price levels. On the specific covers and demand outlook,
I think, there is -- in some cases, there is going to be some frustration in the market at the
primary level, where whether it's SMEs that are just -- frustrated. Their business
Page 14 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

interruption was not paying, due to the pandemic or other areas that potentially could
involve some interesting product innovation.

FINAL

But we go back to the fundamental point that you've heard Christian talk about, which
says a true pandemic loss related to these lockdowns and the economic damages
associated with it, is not something the insurance industry can manage.
And our Swiss Re institute - has the number out there for total economic loss of $12 trillion
more than $6 trillion already in this year and this is not a set of losses the insurance
industry can manage with the capital base we have. So I think, you're going to see some
adjustments to products, but I think at the end of the day, there are certain risks, which
are not insurable by this industry.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Ed. Could we have the next question please.

Operator
Your next question comes from Darius Satkauskas from KBW. Please go ahead.

Q - Darius Satkauskas

{BIO 19724328 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, just one question please. You said the primary rates are going up. So the communist
can afford to pay more for Reinsurance, what are you actually seeing in terms of
commissions, particularly on the proportional side? Thank you.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So I mean, when I say the primary industry is going up, our corporate solutions price
increase, which again is the portfolio they renewed not what they pruned 15%. You saw
some other major players in the US market talk about 15%. I think, it might be a little lighter
than that in some European spaces. But what we see is across all geographies, across all
commercial lines at least, some major increases were -- of rates [ph] for certain retail,
personal lines businesses, the effects that we saw of lock-down for frequencies on motor
in particular, it made pricing in those lines a little more complex.
But again, even the motor insurance, there is a component that's sensitive to investment
income and we'll have to adjust accordingly. The -- when we talk about the prices for our
reinsurance, it's less about specific commissions and more about just overall notional
increases that we receive and or the price adequacy. Again, the 6%, we saw through the
July renewals was directionally correct but not sufficient. And we believe we're going to
have to see more to justify a broader expansion of our portfolio.
But we're -- as I mentioned for the reasons before, I think three [ph] questions ago, we're
optimistic with those opportunities for justified price increases are there.

A - Thomas Bohun
Page 15 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

Thank you, Darius. Could we have the next question please.

Operator

FINAL

Your next question comes from James Shuck with Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi good afternoon everybody. Two quick questions from me please. John, you talked
about the focus of the COVID losses is mainly on the property side of things. Just keen to
get your perspective on the liability lines outlook. Obviously there's going to be lots of
things that can end up in court and there has been quite long tail to this particularly to go
into 2021. How should we think about COVID losses online, such as D&O and workers'
compensation for example.
And then secondly, just on the investment yield. So I think, the run rate was 2.4% at nine
months. How confident are you will be able to sustain that level, or can you give us any
guidance as you reinvest excess cash, what's the kind of headwind in terms of basis
points on that investment yield. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Sure. James. Thanks for the question. With respect to your first question, I guess, I won't
be surprised to find some disputes and potential litigation actually on the property book
as well, in terms of disagreements so far what didn't [ph] in the currencies disagreement
of how accumulation works for the treaties under which losses might be claims, but we'll
see how that plays itself out.
On the specific set of liability lines, I think, the one place which has been reasonably well
behaved, at least till now, is the US workers comp, it's not an area that we've got a big
exposure. But there has been some major decreases in premiums, there have been
captured by the insurance industry, due to the fact that, workers had been furloughed or
positions closed to the degree of the economic recovery is recruiting [ph] some of that -it seems to be functioning, okay.
I think the D&O side, yes there is likely to be -- some losses coming through, again not a
big exposure necessarily for us. But even that's probably been mitigated by the relative
rebound of share prices in particular -- and the some of the losses will come from people
that bailed out in April and then stick around for some of the rebounds, but we'll see how
that plays out. We ourselves have a material reserves set up for liability lines related to
COVID on the P&C Re side in particular, we've not seen much at all in terms of reported
losses and so that remains largely in IBNR position. We'll see how it sorts itself out.
With respect to the investment yield, -- yeah, the 2.4% is down. Our current reinvestment
yield is looking to be about 1.4% the duration of the portfolio at approaching six years
means that it's going to take time to migrate down to that number and between now.
And then things can change, obviously, but at the moment I think, consistent with the
earlier question. We're not going to risk on to try to maintain it. We're going to be
Page 16 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-10-30

cautious, at least until some of the uncertainty that we're facing in the economies, and -in the political situation in multiple countries, not just the US. Resolves itself a bit, and we'll
see how it works.

FINAL

A - Thomas Bohun
Well, thank you very much. With that, we've come to the end of the session, if you have
any questions please reach out to members of the Investor Relations team. Thank you for
joining today and we wish you all a nice weekend and stay safe and healthy. Thank you
very much.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Thanks everyone.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your participations. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 17 of 17

