Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Q3 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariol, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Nick Holmes, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results of
the Third Quarter 2020. For your information, this conference call is being streamed live
on allianz.com and YouTube. A recording will be made available shortly after the call.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to your host today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt, Head
of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you, Bettina. Yes, good afternoon and welcome to our conference call. There's
nothing speciﬁc to be added from my side today, so I hand over directly to Giulio.

Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you, Oliver, and good afternoon and good morning to everybody. And I'm pleased
to present you the results of Allianz for the nine months. If we go to page three, we have
started with the year-to-date view. Overall, we had an operating proﬁt of EUR7.8 billion. As
you see, this number is 14.6% lower compared to the prior period or in euro is EUR1.3
billion below the prior period. But as you see, the deviation is explained by the impact of
Page 1 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

COVID. And as you remember, the majority of the impact from COVID came from Q1 and
Q2. So if you adjust the number for the impact from COVID, we will be at EUR9.1 billion of
operating proﬁt, which is in line with the prior period and also in line with our expectation
of our outlook [ph] divided by pro rata for the period. When we look at the PropertyCasualty segment, we have an operating proﬁt of EUR3.5 billion, which is EUR700 million
below the prior period. If you adjust for the COVID impact in reality, we would be even
slightly better compared to last year. And when you look at the combined ratio with 96%,
if you adjust for the COVID impact, combined ratio would be slightly below 94%, so better
compared to the level of last year.
On the Life side, we have an operating proﬁt of EUR3 billion. Again, here, we had an
impact in, especially in Q1. We had a normalization in Q2. And as you're going to see in a
second that Q3 results has been in line with our expectation. On top of that, the new
business margin with 2.9% is a very strong new business margin in this environment. And
then Asset Management with EUR2 billion of operating proﬁt is ahead of last year, and on
a year-to-date basis, we have a positive inﬂow. So overall, I would say a good set of results
on a nine months basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

And when we go to page ﬁve and we look at the quarter, I will say we see a very good
quarter. As you see as the situation has at least for the third quarter stabilized, you can see
how the underlying performance is kicking in. Overall, we have an operating proﬁt of
EUR2.9 billion. The impact from COVID was in the quarter only EUR100 million, this is
coming from the Property-Casualty side. When we look at the combined ratio of 94.5%, if
we adjust it for the COVID impact, we are below the 94% level. So again, an indication
that we are running below 94%, and we are positioned to get to 93% combined ratio next
year.
On the Life side, the operating proﬁt, as I was saying before, is very good at EUR1.1 billion,
so that's in line with our expectation. And the new business margin also in the quarter was
strong despite very low interest rate at 2.9%. The Asset Management operating proﬁt is
slightly short of EUR700 million. So that's also a good result. If you remember, our outlook
for the 12 months is EUR2.7 billion. So this number is basically totally in line with our
outlook divided by four [ph].
And in the quarter, you see also very strong net inﬂows with EUR26 billion. The net
income is over EUR2 billion. So that's a reﬂection of the solid operating proﬁt and also we
had some realized gains as a consequence of derisking at the beginning of the quarter
and this has also supported the net income. So a strong set of results for the IFRS basis in
the third quarter, which are underlying -- the good underlying -- the good performance
on a underlying basis.
And with that, I would like to move to page seven on the solvency ratio capitalization. As
you see, our solvency capital has increased by ﬁve percentage points from 187% to 192%.
So that's a good development. I'm going to explain it in a few second. And when you look
at the sensitivities, the sensitivities are basically unchanged, just slightly better compared
to the sensitivities that we had at the end of June.

Page 2 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

If we move to page nine, you can see that the organic generation of capital was strong at
six percentage points. If you remove the taxes and the dividend accrual for that proﬁt
generation, there will be about two percentage points. So in line with our expectation.
The market impact has been positive. On a pre-tax basis, we had a six percentage point
positive impact because of market. And here we had at the end of the day the beneﬁt
coming from the narrowing of the credit spreads and also the interest rate volatility has
been lower, especially on the long duration. And so this has been a positive, including
some also non-linear movement of the credit spreads. So that's the reason why we see a
little bit of a better beneﬁt even compared to what could have been expected.
Then one comment on the management action. Here you see basically a deduction from
the own fund of EUR1.5 billion. This is the consequence of the dividend accrual and also
we have completed the acquisition of SulAmerica. So which means if you remove the
dividend accrual and the acquisition of SulAmerica, the impact on -- on the own fund
would be EUR0 billion [ph], but on the same time, you see that the management action
have a positive impact on reducing the SCR.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if you run the math in reality, due to management action, derisking, we have created
about three percentage point to four percentage point of solvency ratio. And this was the
results of action that we put in place in order to sustain or even improve our solvency
ratio. So all-in-all, this leads to a 192% solvency ratio. As you might know, we have decided
to cancel the buyback. The buyback is still deducted from these numbers, which means
on a pro forma basis, the solvency ratio of Allianz Group would be 194%. So overall, a
strong capital position.
And with that, I would like to move to page 11, where as usual we'll go into the PropertyCasualty segment, and we can speak about growth ﬁrst. Clearly, what is I catch in this slide
is the minus 4% on internal growth, but if you look down on the table and you look at the
development of Allianz Partners and Euler Hermes, this explains basically why we have a
minus 4% growth. If you adjust for those two entities, we would be basically at a 0%
growth rate for the quarter.
On top of that, there are a couple of entities, where we are taking clearly, cleaning actions.
So one is obviously, AGCS, where we also getting rid of portfolios, but also in the UK in
the commercial business, we are deﬁnitely pushing also for better underwriting
performance. Otherwise, I would say what's good -- what was very good is the
performance in Germany.
And also what is good, if you look at the price momentum basically in all countries is
positive or stable. And only exception would be Italy, where we have anyway very strong
performance, and then clearly, something [ph] very helpful, the rate increases that we're
getting at AGCS in our industrial business. So fundamentally from a price momentum, we
still see an environment which is either neutral or positive.
Moving to page 13. The operating proﬁt and the combined ratio in P&C are basically ﬂat
over the prior period. When we look at the combined ratio and maybe we focus ﬁrst on
the loss ratio, we see deterioration of 50 basis points, but this is explained by COVID. So if

Page 3 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

you remove the COVID, the loss ratio would be basically ﬂat over the prior period, then
you can see that the run-oﬀ is 200 basis points lower compared to the prior period. But
this has been oﬀset by better NatCat load and also by a better underlying development of
the loss ratio.
One comment on the run-oﬀ, because clearly, losses are pretty low. I would say that here
we tend to be very prudent based on the situation which where we are. So from that point
of view, I will read this in a positive way, because it's just a sign of prudency. And as you
see, we are still booking overall very good results. One ﬁnal comment on the expense
ratio with 26.7%, so that's better compared to what we had last year. Also last quarter, we
had an expense ratio, which was below 27%. So I would say there are some one-oﬀ or
some eﬀects, but I would deﬁnitely say that we are currently operating at an expense ratio
level of about 20%, 27%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to page 15, you can also see here a good picture in my opinion, because if you
just look at the combined ratio of the diﬀerent entities, you can see that we have 89%
combined ratio in Germany, 86% in Italy, 87% in Central and Eastern Europe, you can go
down the list, you're going to see that there are a lot of companies delivering very healthy
combined ratio. So this is a sign of strength across diﬀerent entities.
On AGCS, the combined -- the combined ratio is 102.9% in the quarter. We didn't have a
lot on NatCat, but we had a lot of weather-related events. So if you adjust some of the
numbers and normalize a little bit for that, the combined ratio would be more or less at
100%. This was also the number that we quoted in Q2 as we run our analytics. This looks
to be the level of combined ratio that we have now at AGCS when we normalize for
COVID or we normalize for NatCat weather-related volatility.
With that, I would like to move to page 17 on the investment results. Overall, the
investment results in Property-Casualty is stable. But we have to say also that if you look at
the current yield or if you look at the current income, this is going down in the quarter.
This has been oﬀset by a better harvesting results and lower expenses, but there is some
pressure on the investment results. So this is something that we need to keep in mind.
And this is also the reason why we are even more determined to push the combined ratio
to the 93% level to make sure that we get there. And then clearly, as we go into the
following years, we need to think also how we might get the combined ratio even below
that level, because there is no doubt that on the investment results we're going to see
some diﬀerent numbers in the future compared to what we saw in the past.
Now coming to page 19 on the Life side. Clearly, production is down, which is a reﬂection
of the current situation. Also I would say, last year, production was pretty elevated, so we
have also a little bit of a basis eﬀect. But I believe what the good story is here is the level
of new business margin is -- despite very low interest rates, we are capable to operate the
new business margin of 2.9%. And as you know, we are taking product actions, they're
coming now, they're going to come next year. So from that point of view, the fact that we
have been able to achieve a 2.9% new business margin already now, it's a good indication
of how we are positioned also as we go into 2021. And then a ﬁnal comment on the mix.
As you see, the mix is also moving in the right direction. This has also supported new

Page 4 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

business margin. So from that point of view, I think we are taking all needed action to
preserve the proﬁtability of the new business.
Moving to page 21. The operating proﬁt in Life, as I was saying before, is strong at EUR1.1
billion with a growth rate of over 3% compared to the prior period. And if you adjust for
the deconsolidation of the joint venture with Banco Popular, the growth rate would be
even slightly above 5%. So I would say also from this metric, you can see that our life
insurance business where the situation is just stable. And I would still say that the VIX was
not at the lowest level ever, let's put this way, we see that the results are basically in line
with our expectation of EUR1.1 billion for the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move now to page 23. Clearly, the value of new business is down, but that's a
reﬂection of the fact that we have lower production for the quarter. As I was saying before,
the new business margin is healthy at 2.9%. And also if you go down the list or the OEs or
the entities, you can see that all entities have either a good new business margin or at
least a decent new business margin. So also from that point of view, I would say in all
entities that we -- that we're taking the action that we need to take. On the operating
proﬁt, I would say there are no major development. You can see a lift in Asia-Paciﬁc and
also in the USA, but fundamentally, you see a lot of positive signs in the -- as I was saying
before in Spain, the drop is due also to the deconsolidation of the joint venture with
Banco Popular.
Moving now to page 25. On the investment margin, you can see that we have an increase
of 4%, and that's the consequence of having an increasing asset basis, and on the same
time, the margin is stable. If you take the expression in relative terms, if you take the
investment margin of 19 basis points and you annualize that number, you get basically to
76 basis point, and this would be within the range that we were expecting for this year.
And with that, I'd like to move to Asset Management. Overall, we have EUR2.3 trillion of
assets under management. And as you can see here, both the third-party assets and the
proprietary assets have been growing this quarter. But I would just move very quickly to
page 29, because that's more insightful and here we get the explanation of the movement
in the assets under management. As you see, there was an increase for third-party. As you
see there was an increase of EUR12 billion, and the main driver -- the main driver for this
increase was the inﬂows with positive, very positive inﬂows at PIMCO, then you can see
also that the impact from the market was favorable. On the other side, we had a strong
negative deviation due to impact due to FX. And this is clearly driven by the depreciation
of the US dollar.
But despite signiﬁcant depreciation of the US dollar, we have been able to increase our
assets under management. And clearly, we are very happy, especially with the ﬂow
situation at PIMCO. With that at page 31, the revenue in Asset Management, if you adjust
the numbers for ﬁxed eﬀects are basically stable. We see a little bit of a plus. Clearly, this
is due to the development at PIMCO. When you look at AGI, you see a signiﬁcant
deterioration of minus 8%, but this is mostly driven by the volatility around the
performance fees. So if you adjust the numbers for the performance fees and you just
look at the basis fee in reality, the growth rate was just slightly negative at minus 1%. So

Page 5 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

from that point of view, there is more stability on the basis fees and then clearly, there can
be some volatility around the performance fees.
Moving at -- to page 33, the operating proﬁt is very good at EUR677 million. It's below the
prior period level, but as you can see right away, the deviation is driven by the impact of
ﬁxed eﬀects. And we look then at the entity, we can see that PIMCO had a good
performance, indeed, even despite the FX eﬀects, which are particularly positive in the
Euro translation for PIMCO. PIMCO has been able to grow the operating proﬁt, and then
you can also see that the cost income ratio is very healthy at 58%. In the case of AGI, you
see a signiﬁcant drop in the operating proﬁt, but this is explained by the performance
fees, so the same eﬀect that is explaining the revenue drop is also explaining most of the
drop in investment in operating proﬁt. Indeed, I would say when you look at the absolute
amount of operating proﬁt at EUR150 million, it's a very good operating proﬁt. If you
annualize that number, there will be basically north of EUR600 million for the year. So it's
deﬁnitely a good result.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now moving to page 35, on corporate, we see a deterioration compared to the last year,
but there are always some eﬀects that can go one year in one direction and the other year
in the diﬀerent direction. Overall, I would say the results are in line with our expectation.
And then moving to page 37, on the non-operating items, as I was saying in the beginning
of the presentation, the realized gains are a little bit higher compared to last year.
That's also driven by the fact that last year, we had a negative impact on realized gains
due to the buyback of a bond, but also this year as I was saying before, we had realized
gains on equity as a consequence of derisking that we undertook at the beginning of the
quarter. Otherwise, impairments are lower compared to last year. And then as you see,
the restructuring expenses are higher, and that's a reﬂection of all the things that we are
doing, including IT decommissioning to push further productivity also for the future. So
all-in-all, a net income of EUR2.1 billion, which is obviously a very good number.
And with that, I turn to page 39. So in summary, I would say, we had a very good quarter
underling that when the situation is stable, you can see that the numbers are coming back
to what is a more normal level. As always, we are focusing on the things we can control.
And as you see, our expense ratio is going in the right direction, and the loss ratio is a
little bit more diﬃcult to read the numbers. But I can tell you that we are conﬁdent about
what we see on the Life business. You see that the new business margin is 2.9%, despite
rates which are very low. And also in Asset Management, I would say the numbers are
pretty solid too with the operating proﬁt of EUR700 million, almost EUR700 million for the
quarter. So I think we're focusing on the things we can control and I believe we are
successful on that.
And with that, I would like just to take your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Page 6 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our ﬁrst question today comes from Jon Hocking of
Morgan Stanley.

FINAL

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. I've got three questions, please. Firstly, on AGCS. Have you
now completed all the portfolio pruning that you want to do? This is the ﬁrst question.
Second question, just coming back to the run-oﬀ results. You sort of mentioned that
you're sort of being conservative, but there -- were there any particular portfolios where
you strengthened reserves at the third quarter stage? And then ﬁnally, I just wonder
whether you could give any sort of comment as far as you're able to on the dividend,
discussions you might have had in the past and in recent weeks? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So thank you for the questions, Jon. On AGCS, I would say, the pruning in the sense
of getting rid of some book of businesses. This is fairly completed, but we are clearly still
taking a lot of rating actions to locate exposure [ph]. So from that point of view, we are still
in the -- in a situation where we are driving margin proﬁtability, and we are using the hard
market to do that instead of maybe start thinking about growth. So that's still priority
number one.
As we go into 2021, once we see that the combined ratio is going below the 100% level
and also we want to see this below 100%, doesn't mean 99%, once we get there, once we
have also comfort about elements like social inﬂation, all these kind of things, at that
point, we might start thinking about growth. But for the time being, clearly, the priority is
still making sure that we have an underwriting performance which is better compared also
to the underwriting performance that we see right now. We should not forget that the
combined ratio according to our analytics is 100%. We're not saying it's 93% or 94%. So
from that point of view, we are going in the right direction, but there is still some work to
do.
On your question about the run-oﬀ, no, there was nothing funny. So I just tell you that in
general, we have taken a more conservative view across the board and this is just a
reﬂection. There is uncertainty clearly, as you go into the fourth quarter and also as you go
-- you prepare for 2021. So there is nothing speciﬁc in a entity that justify the lower
number, just overall, conservative view on -- just to make sure that we're well prepared for
anything that might happen as we move forward.
On the dividend, I would say the conversation that we have with our regulator are the
same conversation that we had at the beginning of the year. So at the end of the day, their
position has not changed, which means that as long a company has a gross solvency ratio
and good capital management and liquidity, it is going to be the basis for the decision on
dividend. So that's the status as of now and that's also the status based on the
conversation that we had with our regulators. So no change on that position compared to
what we saw in April last year -- this year.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}
Page 7 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Thank you. Could I just come back on the run-oﬀ comments, you mentioned being more
conservative. Is there anything particular you've seen in the environment of this maybe
more conservative [ph], is it just COVID and economic eﬀects or is there anything else
that's driving that decision?

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

No, I think it's a normal reaction. There is not that we see anything the assumption that we
are -- we say we need to change something. It's just a normal reﬂection to say, let's hold a
little bit power dry in a situation where you don't know what might come in front of you. If
you ask me what I'm referring to, we need to think that next year, the revenue might be
lower. We might have also situation that revenue might be lower also and we discussed
that already. Also because in Motor, for example, premium expansion of the frequency
that you might have had in the current year.
So this is going to inﬂuence the premium for the next year, but we might see a spike in
severity maybe in frequency next year. So it's a little bit being more conservative to
prepare for developments that we have not seen before and -- as a result of this COVID
situation, but there is nothing that we are seeing right now to being prudent.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Okay, thanks very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Welcome.

Operator
We will now take a question from Michael Huttner of Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Fantastic, thank you, and the lovely results. (technical diﬃculty) I have three questions.
One is, when you began to approach the revenues, just wondered if you can expand a
little bit on more on your thinking on revenue growth in 2021? The other is maybe an
important question, what should be the solvency ex-UFR? And I think, understand you
would say, well, it's a little bit unfair, because we invest in risky assets and, of course,
Solvency II ignores risky assets, but just give a feel for it? And then the last one is, maybe
you can say something what's left for COVID both 2020 and maybe more claims in future?
Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, I didn't get your second question. Can you repeat the second one.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

What should be solvency excluding the UFR?
Page 8 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Excluding (multiple speakers).

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, yes.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. So on solvency excluding UFR, I'd tell you that I don't have the number to run this
calculation. I can tell you however what would be the impact in the case, the current
proposal of EIOPA is implemented, that will be assuming, we do management action,
there will be about between about 15 [ph] percentage points on the solvency ratio of the
Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

But this would assume that we clearly sit here, we do nothing. But I don't have now a
number in the case the last week, point [ph] will be completely removed from the picture.
So on the COVID, you know at the beginning of the year, we guided that we expect to
have about EUR1 billion plus of COVID expenses -- COVID impact.
So as of Q3, we are at EUR900 million. So I would expect that in the last quarter, we're still
going to see the impact coming from Euler Hermes because clearly, on that one we're still
going to book a combined ratio about 100% [ph], then we have some -- at the end of the
year we're going to decide whether we want to add some reserve for ﬁnancial lines and
D&O, just to be prudent, because one day, it might be that we're going to see some
claims come in there. So I could expect that in Q4, we're going to see the remaining
EUR100 million, EUR200 million that we have anticipated from the beginning of the
COVID situations that could be my expectation for Q4. So about I would say couple of
EUR100 million of impacts.
And then on the -- on the growth, yes, on the growth for next year, I just said, it depends,
right. We appear to be still on a diﬀerent trajectory of revenue for travel. So it might be
that we are going to be the level where we are right now. It might be a little bit better
depending on how the COVID situation develop, but fundamentally, clearly, that's a line
of business with the revenue still going to be lower compared to a normal run rate, the
same to a certain degree is going to apply to Euler Hermes. And then when we start
looking at the other businesses like our operation in Italy, in Spain, Germany, I would say
that on aggregate, I would expect growth to be ﬂattish or maybe slightly positive, but
fundamentally, we're not going to see next year the growth rate of 3% or 4% than we were
used to see in prior period. So from that point of view, yes, we are thinking that growth is
going to be relatively muted next year. So that's our expectation.
On the Life side, that's a little bit of a diﬀerent story, because on the Life side you might
also see fundamentally when -- if the situation stabilizes, say pickup in production. So it's
very diﬃcult to say on the Life side what will happen to revenue. On the Life side, it's also
less, let's say, critical compared to Property-Casualty, because clearly, the dynamic of the
ﬁnancials on the Life side, some are diﬀerent compared to the dynamic that you have on
the Property-Casualty side.
Page 9 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

But clearly, on the growth side, we are kind of cautious as we go into 2021, and that's also
the reason why we are indeed focusing a lot on productivity. We know that we need to
work hard on the expense side in order to preserve the margin. And then also that's one
of the reason why we are putting a lot of emphasis also on making sure that we don't have
a leakage on technical excellence because we will need also a good loss ratio. So that's
very high on our priority list right now.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
We will now take a question from Peter Eliot of Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. I have three questions as well, please, so the continuation of the
topic of the growth outlook, but -- and in Life. I was just wondering if you could sort of
speciﬁcally talk about the competitive situation as you steer away from guarantees, how
the rest of the industry is moving or following and what the sort of customer perception
is?
So just from the sort of competitive pressures, great, if you could talk about those a little
bit? And secondly on the derisking actions you've taken, I was a little bit surprised that the
solvency sensitivities didn't change very much, given that you have taken those actions.
So I was just wondering if you could explain what's happening there? And then ﬁnally,
COVID losses, you made it clear that overall, the losses for this year, your base cases, they
shouldn't change very much. I'm just wondering, could you just highlight what you see as
the main sort of downside risks from here? I mean, what's a worst-case scenario in terms
of the environment, the development. and what that might mean for you or is there very
little downside risk now that contract terms have been changed and renewed and so on?
Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, yes, perfect. So starting from the ﬁrst question about the competitive environment on
the Life side, I would say the following that not concerned in Germany. I would say that
move that we are doing is totally logical, and I'm pretty conﬁdent also that competitors
are going to follow. And also from a customer point of view, I think everybody is going to
understand that the new product oﬀering is, ﬁrst of all is still a good product oﬀering
because, yes, it's true that the guarantees are lower, let's put this way, there is more a sort
of protection which is given. But you can still on the long run get a return, and the
alternatives are either you go to a bank, you get zero [ph] or you can clearly invest in a
high risk -- higher risk strategy, but then you need to pay to be also willing to bear the
consequences.
So in Germany, I would say, I think also because of the branding, the strength that we
have, I strongly believe that we're going to be successful. Also in France just to give an
Page 10 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

idea, I see that's also the competition is moving. So from that point of view, I believe the
entire industry is moving somehow in the same direction, that's very helpful.
In Italy, anyway we have already changed our mix to unit-linked. So in Italy we don't have
even the need to make a lot of changes. And then we always go back to the United
States, where I would say in the United States, sometimes we might be in the situation that
we operate with diﬀerent metrics compared to what the competition is doing. But I would
say the majority of the competition is adjusting also because the rates are anyway also on
a real world basis, you need to make changes in order to preserve the proﬁtability. So
that's not only the case if you're running a market consistent by the value kind of pricing.
So I would say fundamentally, there is a change. And then as usual in the US, there is
somebody who didn't get the email, so there are some companies that might stay a little
bit more aggressive. But eventually, even the companies that stay a little bit more
aggressive for maybe a couple of quarters eventually, they need to realize what reality is.
So I would also -- I would even say that in the United States, when I speak to my former
colleagues over there, there is a good degree of conﬁdence that they can have a product
oﬀering, which is going to be competitive, is going to be accepted by the customers and
we can get to a -- the premium level that we need to get in order to operate successful -successfully.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then you had a question about the sensitivities why they are not going down, although,
we do derisking, I'd tell you, that's a good observation. The reason why they are not
going down, even if we sell equity, if the rates, interest rates are going down, somehow
you get to the same level of sensitivity, because every time the interest rates are going
down, especially on these markets consistent by the value you have less distance for the
guarantee.
And so automatically this is kind of -- everything has been -- everything has been equal,
that would increase the sensitivity. So we need to derisk to a certain degree in order to
keep this sensitivity stable in the case of lower interest rates. If we have a combination of
derisk on the equity side and to increase interest rates, then you're going to see how the
sensitivities are going to go down signiﬁcantly, but that is actually what's -- what is
happening right now. So we take action on the investment portfolio. This is going to
decrease the sensitivity, but on the other side lower interest rates are going to put them
back more or less to the level we were before.
And then on the credit losses, I understand you are referring to in general, the credit, how
we view the -- COVID, sorry, I understood credit loss. On the COVID losses, okay, I would
say fundamentally as we look into 2021, the situation is going to be such that our
exposure to COVID losses coming on the business interruption is going to be way lower
compared to what we had this year, is not going to be zero [ph], but it's going to be
signiﬁcantly lower.
So from that point of view I would say, there wouldn't be a concern. And then when we
think about entertainment, in decades, we had done a calculation that assuming we have
a lockdown, basically for -- again a situation where for 12 months, no events are going to
take place, then we would have potentially a loss that could go up to EUR200 million. But
that would be really a situation when nothing is happening basically for to -- for the entire
Page 11 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

year. So from that point of view, I would say the situation as we look into 2021, if you ask
me is manageable, and you have always to assume that in the famous situation where we
might see that kind of impact on entertainment, most likely the frequency in Motor would
be also a little bit better compared to historical average.
So as we look into 2021, on the underwriting side, I think the impact from COVID on the
claims side would be limited. So it's more about thinking or what the implication going to
be on revenue, on the sentiment in the market, on the capital market. But from a pure
claim point of view, I would say this shouldn't be a major concern for 2021.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

That's great. Thanks so much. Can I just quickly follow up on your comment on the
sensitivities, Giulio.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

I mean, given what you said, does that mean there's more work to be done? I mean,
should we maybe expect you to still be working on that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, we always tell you we work a lot on Solvency II and the sensitivity. So from that point
of view, that's an ongoing eﬀort. And part of the work that we do is also to do back-book
transaction, because at the end of the day, there is a point where you need to think not
only about how you change your assets, but also how you maybe change your perimeter.
From that point of view, yes, there is no doubt that we have been working on our solvency
ratio for basically throughout the year. We have also action that we will constantly put in
place. This -- let me also tell you, we are at a very good combined solvency ratio. So the
level is anyway very good and very comforting. But clearly, we take all opportunities and
all actions that we can take in order to stabilize the solvency ratio even further and
potentially to increase it.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thanks so much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
Our next question comes from Andrew Ritchie of Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Page 12 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So, hi, there. A couple of questions. First of all, Giulio, just remind me or clarify what you
said on the outlook for the Life spread, which is annualizing as you said at around 80 [ph].
I think it may have beneﬁted this quarter from prepayments in the US. So I'm just
wondering if that drops out, is it -- are you still anticipating it can be held around this
level? Second question, is it -- I think in Q4, you review the assumptions -- DAC
assumptions in the US, if you have any concerns on that? And I guess the only other two
quick questions, has there been any new discoveries in terms of eﬃciencies, cost savings
that you might build on as the year closes? And then particularly, is there enough material
from learning from COVID to launch a new cost saving program? And then the ﬁnal
question was, you mentioned in your previous answer that you can obviously look at inforce management. There has been a lot of private equity interest in the last month or so,
particularly in US blocks. Do you think your ability to oﬄoad problematic blocks has
actually gone up?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, okay. Thank you, Andrew for the questions. So starting from the ﬁrst one about
prepayment, its not something that we saw or not to the extent that, that was brought to
our attention. So I would not say that there was a driver of what happened in Q3 on the
spreads. And regarding your question, where do -- I think the spread is going to go.
But from my standpoint, the investment margin in relative terms, we know this number
can just go down, it's not going to go up. This is going to be partially oﬀset by the fact
that the reserve basis is going to increase, and we should not forget that the capital
intensity on that reserve basis is diﬀerent compared to the capital intensity we had in the
past. But then it's pretty clear that what we need to have is more earnings coming from
loadings and also from the technical margin. But we are not going to, let's say, win the
battle by lifting the investment margin. This is not going to happen in this kind of
environment. So we need to think a little bit diﬀerent about the composition of our proﬁt
on the Life side as we move forward.
On your question regarding DAC in the United States, no, I'm not concerned on the DAC
in the United States. What we might see in Q4, on the one side, I believe that we are
going to see potentially some loss recognition in long-term clear [ph], but on the other
side, we're going to see most likely some positive eﬀect on other lines of business where
we see that we have a positive development or the assumption compared to what we
have in our reserving.
So don't expect to see any surprise coming from the US in fourth quarter. But we're going
to have some lines of business like LTC, where we're going to have a negative unlocking.
We're going to have other line of business where we're going to have a positive
unlocking. So overall, I would say the quality of the balance sheet in the US is strong. And
this leads maybe to the last question, and I'm not going to speak now speciﬁcally about
the United States, but -- and it is going to be more of a generic comments. What we see is
that, and I said that already before, our book of businesses, they tend to -- maybe -- they
don't tend maybe to have sometimes the best ROE, but the quality relative to other things

Page 13 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

that are out there is pretty good, and that's just a consequence of the discipline that we
put in place over many years.
So in our situation is really that I think we did the -- we took the right steps and decision
clearly when rates are so low. I think the capital intensity of those businesses might be
higher than anticipated. But this means that for us to ﬁnd buyers might not be overly
complicated. And this is a generic statement because the quality of the business that we
had there, it's a little bit better, and so this is more easier if you want to potentially ﬁnd an
agreement with the buyer, but leave that as a very generic statement.

Bloomberg Transcript

And to come back to your speciﬁc question, do I think that in general, the possibility to
sell book today are higher compared to a few -- maybe a year ago. I would say in -- yes,
maybe they are a little bit better compared to a year ago. Deﬁnitely, they are not worse,
because my concern was, as we went into the COVID crisis that maybe capacity might dry
up, but that's not the case. So there is deﬁnitely an interest for back-books. And if you
have a back-book, which is not really bad of a back-book, the interest might be even
slightly better.
And then on the eﬃciency, I just tell you out of COVID, I will say, yes, you can learn
something also about eﬃciency, but I will not overplay that because a little bit less travel,
yes, might have been expense ratio, but I wouldn't say this is the main driver. We're also
looking at location clearly, potentially, one might say that less space is needed, you can
do something there. But fundamentally, for me, the COVID is more the proof that we can
move to a more digital world. So from that point of view, we can accelerate what our plan
was anyway with the ACM Model, with the Allianz Customer Model. So it's more an
acceleration of what we wanted to do or a proof that this can work. It's going to shape
also the customer relationship potentially or the interaction with the distribution a little bit
diﬀerently. But I wouldn't say that just because of COVID now suddenly, the expense ratio
is going down one percentage point. I wouldn't see it that way, but clearly can -- COVID
can support our agenda. From that point of view, that would be one of the positive out of
the COVID situation.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thanks very much. Very comprehensive.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
We will now take a question from Farooq Hanif of Credit Suisse.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Hi, everybody. First question on AGCS. The level of pricing that
you're seeing on renewals is really quite high. And it seems to suggest that you're taking

Page 14 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

advantage of liability and longer tail lines of businesses. If you could just talk about why
that is particularly high, that would be helpful?
Secondly, if next year you ﬁnd that you're, for whatever reason, not allowed to buy back
capital, what -- would you still be looking to deploy the EUR2 billion to EUR3 billion that
you have? And last question maybe on the UK. You've always had a very high level of
reinsurance in the UK, so your kind of -- I think your net to gross is sort of 50% to 60%. Do
you really need that now that you have a more diversiﬁed book? And are there any plans
to adjust the reinsurance arrangements in the UK? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, maybe I start from the UK one. I believe what you see there is the consequence of the
quota share that we do, which are capital management's quota share that we put in place
in most of the entities, and we do that not only in the UK, we do also in other countries. In
most of the entities, we -- when we talk to you guys, we show you the view basically
before this quota share that we do.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the case of the UK, we didn't do that so far, but next year we're going to ﬂip also for the
UK to use the same methodology. So in reality, it's, we're still retaining basically the risk
and the proﬁt. And that's just in the case of the UK, you saw this so far the numbers
including the quota share to the group. Moving forward, you're going to see a picture,
which is more similar to what you saw -- what you're seeing for the other countries. So
that's on the UK.
So back to your question. No, we wouldn't need that kind of reinsurance. So you got the
point right, and we're not doing that. On the buyback, I would say that -- assuming that in
2021, it's not -- it's not feasible because of the regulatory environment to do buyback.
Clearly, we would look at the possibility to deploy capital and that's what we always do.
But we will not compromise on the ﬁnancial discipline, because there is no point to
deploy capital at sub-optimal return of -- for buying sub-optimal assets, because at that
point in time, I rather wait a year longer and do a buyback as opposed to regret for the
next 10 years, why we bought something [ph] which has no quality or that has not the
return that we want. I'm sitting in front of one of our investment guys, he would like to add
the money to invest in more risky assets that's what he is telling me. But, yes, we're going
to keep the discipline, that's what we're going to do. But clearly, if we cannot do buyback,
we're going to look at alternative way to deploy capital.
And then on the rate increases in AGCS. I would say that we see rate increases basically
across all lines of business. So it's not just in ﬁnancial lines or in liability, we see even big
rate increases in property. So that's a hardening which is basically across the board. And I
would even say at this point in time across almost all geographies. So, yes, that's what we
are currently seeing in the industrial business, and we are not the only one. So that's a
market trend, which is pretty strong and we don't see that is coming to an end yet. So rate
increases are still going through. But this also tells you that there is potentially still
uncertainty around social inﬂation. This means that, that there is still a way to go before
companies can claim that they are comfortable with the level of proﬁtability. So otherwise
you wouldn't see these kind of rate increases throughout the markets.
Page 15 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Just if I may go back on the capital deployment, maybe I can ask in
a diﬀerent way. If you -- I mean, we know that you want ﬁnancial discipline. You have
obviously seen quite a lot of opportunities and you've deployed the capital. I mean, if you
aren't able to, let's say, in 2021, deploy the capital in buybacks or ﬁnd deals or you really
don't want to derisk for whatever reason. I mean, is that buﬀer still there as a budget to be
used or does it just get absorbed as surplus capital that stays in the business forever. So
for example, would you think about doubling the buyback the year after, is that one way
of putting it?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

That could potentially be always a possibility. But I would say, let's go through 2021. Let's
see what is happening in 2021, what kind of situation we're going to have and then we
can speak about 2022, 2023 maybe in one year down the road.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Our next question comes from Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Hello, yes, can you hear me?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Hi, yes, absolutely.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Hi. Giulio, a few quick clariﬁcations, please, if you like. First one is the, I noticed the
capital-eﬃcient products in Life. We've got a very nice EUR300 million plus operating
proﬁt after a long time. And I also noticed that the reserves in that -- in the unit-linked area
in that segment are doubled in the quarter despite new business value literally, like for
20%, 25% down, and even the premium is 20% down. Is there something going on in that
segment that you would like to ﬂag and we should know about? So that's the ﬁrst
question. And if you can assume EUR300 million now going to happen (technical
diﬃculty).
Second question is just on the frequency beneﬁt in P&C being quite a bit lower than the
previous two quarters that EUR100 million now, EUR400 million run rate previously. Is that

Page 16 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

part of the conservative approach or is that okay, things are more normalized and that's
what we should have expected? So that is there.
Then, third quick one is that the Solvency II market impact of six points. Would you say
that there was some surprise for you there in the spread or the volatility because
obviously, consensus were surprises and so was I. So just any comment there? And very
last quick follow-up or rather on this whole M&A thing is that there were news around a
particular transaction in France. And then it seems to ﬁt with your strategy, but are you
able to comment a bit about that -- the particular view of France transaction at all? Thank
you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So I go -- ﬁrst, I'm not sure I got all the questions, but maybe you can repeat. On the
capital-eﬃcient product, the improvement in operating proﬁt is driven once by Allianz
Life. The situation in the recovery, the spread margin, if you want on a IFRS basis in Q3 this
year has been good compared to some pressure that we had in last year. And the other
one is Allianz Germany. Up to now we didn't see a lot of proﬁt in that line of business
coming from Allianz Germany, but now we see more proﬁtability coming through. Just to
give you an idea anyway of the development in Germany last year, the reserve associated
with this business in Allianz Germany were EUR40 billion, and this year the reserve -average reserve were EUR40 billion, and this year they are EUR64 billion.
So you see a big increase in volume there, and this clearly is also then leading to a
diﬀerent impact on the proﬁt. So I think this is where you have the combination of more
stable margin on the Allianz Life side and then you see also the proﬁtability of Allianz
Leben kicking in. Then I -- that's also the picture that you would expect. And we are not
necessarily surprised by these developments, because I tell you, our expectation for the
proﬁt in that line of business for the year was well over EUR1 billion. So from that point of
view, it might be a little bit more elevated, and also tell you the proﬁtability in Allianz Life
in FIA was a little bit better than usual this quarter. But fundamentally, the numbers are
directionally correct. Then you had a question, I believe related to another line of
business, I didn't get it.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

The frequency beneﬁt in --

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, on the frequency in P&C. And the question was -- can you -- because I didn't really
get your question.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

It's much lower -- I mean, it's much lower now in 3Q. Is it just the change in the economic
environment or is it also your conservative approach that you mentioned about reserving
and --

Page 17 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. So I -- okay, the only thing I can say about frequency in general is the frequency in
Motor tends to be lower compared to what you historically see in Q3, anyway the
frequency in Motor was higher compared to what we saw in Q2. So overall, there was a
little bit of a beneﬁt from frequency in Motor in Q3, but that wasn't overly signiﬁcant. So I
would say it was relatively minor. But that's what you're looking for on the ﬁgure.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, I just wanted to understand if you recognized it a lower number because of being
conservative or --

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, sure -- okay, I got the question. I would say that that's also potentially part of the
prudency. I believe for sure we had a conversation in Q2, the reduction in frequency was a
little bit more compared to what we reﬂected. And I would also say that to a certain
degree, we might have been a little bit conservative in Q3. But in Q3, the developments
on frequency was anyway diﬀerent compared to Q4. So I would say, there might been
some entities, some level of conservatives, but I wouldn't for Q3 overplay that element on
the frequency driver. I would say it's less of an item compared to the conversation we had
in Q2.
Then you had an question on the Solvency II market impact. And, yes, the things that have
driven this additional improvement, if you want, in the Solvency II capital was the interest
rate volatility is lower, so that's also something that one has to keep an eye on, but clearly,
we cannot put a possible driver there, but there was a reduction, especially on the interest
rate volatility on the long end. And this is also the most relevant when you think about the
fact that we have also long-tail liability. And then also when we do this sensitivity, we give
you the sensitivity to rates or credit spreads. These are all, if you want, linear sensitivity,
but you can add twisting of the curve, you can also add twisting of the credit spread
curve, that was deﬁnitely an element that this quarter has been beneﬁcial.
But then we go -- we go back to the conversation that we had also in the past, there is -there is always some noise and sometimes the noise can be positive, sometimes the noise
can be negative. I'll be concerned if I were you, if I see that the noise is always negative,
then it means -- then I will start questioning whether we have a fundamental
misunderstanding what is happening. As long as you see a couple of percentage point,
sometimes it can be up, sometimes it can be down, I think that's totally understandable,
when you have a calculation like Solvency II. And I'd like to repeat what this calculation is.
So ﬁrst of all, you need to -- when we try to estimate solvency, the solvency ratio, when
you try to do that based on our sensitivity, this calculation tells you ﬁrst of all, you need to
do a market consistent embedded value at the end of the day, a market consistent
calculation of a lot of liabilities, okay, that's how you calculate the own fund, and then you
need to ask yourself, how this own fund is going to look after you run 50,000 [ph]
scenario and you look at what is happening in 99.5% higher level. So you can imagine that
when you try to estimate what happen to that number, there might be, you just need to

Page 18 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

be oﬀ by EUR400 million and you have a couple of percentage point of solvency ratio
diﬀerential. So if you start thinking this way, you understand that two percentage point or
three percentage point or more or less of solvency due to market movement is in reality,
around the mistake. And the point is, you should not have a clear trending one direction.
If it's always positive, these noise are always negative, there will be a concern as long it is
up and down, I think that's part of the game and that's what we're seeing. And then you
had another question, which was on -- on what -- M&A rumors in France, I never comment
on M&A rumors. So from that point of view, I don't have much to say about M&A rumors.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

All right. Thank you very much for (multiple speakers).

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you for the question. Yes, thank you.

Operator
We will now move to a question from William Hawkins of KBW. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hi, Giulio, thank you very much. Two questions on the derisking in Solvency II you've been
referring to. It may seem a stupid question, but can you just remind me why you've been
doing this derisking in the ﬁrst place? I mean, I'm not blind to the environment around us,
but you might have thought that with all the Central Bank action going on and all the
market movement could have already happened, and all the prudencies Allianz already
has, derisking from things like equities and P&C and duration matching, would either
been something you've already done or something which is not really necessary to do
given all the Central Bank support for the capital markets. So if you just remind me why
you've done this?
And then maybe easier to answer, I don't know. Could you also -- presumably there is a
cost to the future capital generation of the derisking you've done this year, may not be a
massive number. But could you just tell us how much in euro terms your future operating
proﬁts the Solvency II would be dragged by the derisking? And then the last question,
please. Given everything that you've said about the lockdown challenges, the ongoing
opportunities for eﬃciency measures and the rest of it, into 2021 and beyond, can Allianz
still grow its operating proﬁts at 4% a year?
I mean, it seems to me you're talking cautiously on the Life side of the business. Low
yields are a big problem. So everything hinges on yet more and more eﬃciencies in the
combined ratio. And presumably at some point that just becomes very hard to achieve
given you've already been quite eﬃcient. So how conﬁdent are you that 4% is a growth
ﬁgure you can achieve in 2021 and beyond?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Page 19 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Okay, maybe -- thank you, Bill, for your questions. So starting from the ﬁrst question, why
we do derisking under the circumstances, I would say, exports is always a little bit easier
and to say maybe equity market when -- didn't go south and they stay relatively ﬂat so far.
But when you're in a situation where you see that there is a lot of people that can get very
nervous around you, you want to be a little bit more prudent. By the way, I think that the
position that we have right now is also the right position, but clearly, one can take also a
diﬀerent view. But I don't think that for our success, it's so critical to have a few billion
more shares. And in this kind of environment, I think to be prudent on or extremely
prudent, if you want on capital management, on preserving the solvency ratio, I think is
the right move to do.

Bloomberg Transcript

And coming to your question, what is the cost, if I understand what is the cost of derisking
from a proﬁt point of view. But I can tell you that on the Life side, the derisking was -- was
about, I would say EUR3 billion plus of equity that we sold. So you can just -- and clearly,
this kind of reinvest -- the equity that we sold, we have been reinvested in the normal
ﬁxed income strategic asset allocation. So from that point of view, you might say that
everything has been equal, one can lose two percentage points to three percentage
points of income.
But I would also tell you that will not be the kind of income where I would necessarily
considering also the volatility that can come with that, where I would attach a high PE
ratio. So from that point of view, yes, one can say the proﬁt might be lower compared to
keeping equity, but on the other side, there is really a beneﬁt from a risk point of view.
And in theory, having EUR3 billion of equity or EUR3 billion of some other assets, ﬁrst
doesn't make any diﬀerence, it's still EUR3 billion. Then one year later, you can see
whether the EUR3 billion have been -- what kind of strategy has outperformed the other
strategy.
So from that point of view, yes, there is a cost, if you want on a normalized basis. In a tail
scenario, there is a beneﬁt, and I will say this is not potentially the most critical element.
And in this environment, we go for safety. On what we think about the future, I'm not
going to speak now about 2021 speciﬁcally. And in 2021 i.e. there might be clearly a lot of
moving pieces. We are still in the situation where we are -- we have lockdowns, as we
speak. And we don't know what those lockdowns might hit in the capital markets, what
kind of impact they might eventually have on the revenue basis for 2021. But I can tell you
a little bit beyond 2021, how do I see Allianz on a normalized basis, I would say on a
normalized basis, I believe that based on our footprint, we're going to be able some point
in time to go back to our growth rate that you saw also in the recent past. There will be a
growth rate where you have three percentage points to four percentage points of
improvement in growth in premium.
And then if you combine that with action on the underwriting results because there is
always something you can improve if you combine that with also improvement
productivity or maybe if you're in a situation where you can go back to invest in equity, I
believe that fundamentally the business should be set up to achieve a growth -- a growth
rate similar to what you saw also in the last year. So now we're going to a -- through a
speciﬁc phase. 2021, we will see how this is going to play out. But fundamentally, the

Page 20 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

trajectory of Allianz ﬁve years down the road is not going to be any diﬀerent, I would say
because of what we're going through right now.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Giulio.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
Our next question will now come from Nick Holmes of Societe Generale. Please go
ahead.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, there. Thank you very much. Just quick couple of follow-ups. Firstly, with EIOPA, do
you think there is a need to make some changes to avoid the confusion we've had over
dividends this year? I mean, I'm thinking maybe restricting EIOPA's powers or giving more
power to national regulations? And then secondly, just coming back on the derisking in
German Life. Are you -- I know you touched on this earlier, but are you a bit worried that
in the US, you're not really doing the same. I think you said US market is more
competitive, but that is really a danger to you, it's much rather than an opportunity. Does
it make sense to pull back in the US? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, thank you for your question. On the dividend and so the power of diﬀerent
regulators, that's really not my place to comment. I can just get into trouble if I get there.
So coming to a more familiar topic, which is Allianz Life, I don't -- maybe I gave you a
wrong impression. We are making changes in Allianz Life deﬁnitely. So, and the
production is shifting more and more to these IVA products. Also we have introduced -- in
FIA, we introduced a diﬀerent structure, where we have basically a fee that we can also
increase in the case there is a spike in defaults or there is a situation where there are
downgrades. So we have deﬁnitely put even more ﬂexibility and management levers into
the product. So we are deﬁnitely making changes. And there is also by the way,
apparently some regulatory change coming, that should support somehow the
proﬁtability of the business because they are going to lower basically, the minimum
guarantee because there is a sort of minimum guarantee on these FIA products coming
from the regulator. So from that point of view, we are taking actions, and we also believe
that some of the regulatory changes would be beneﬁcial.
And my point was that it looks like other competitors are also moving the same -- in the
same direction, but indeed -- so that we don't see now this disconnect that we need to do
more compared to others, so we are doing what we are supposed to do. And the
competitors, most of the competitors are also moving, but unfortunately, there is always
somebody who is not going to move and this might cause some -- something on the
revenue side. But there is no doubt that our principle in the US has always been ﬁrst, we
Page 21 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

FINAL

make sure that we feel comfortable with the risk and with the proﬁtability of the products
and then we see how much revenue are we getting.
And I would say, if I look at the numbers as of now, the revenue that we get might be
lower compared to what we had in the past, but they are suﬃcient for Allianz Life to
operate. I was the CFO there. And we had a clear number in mind how much revenue we
need to have in order to be able to comfortably cover our expenses. And I would say at
this point in time, Allianz Life is deﬁnitely at the level of production where they can cover
the expenses, and this means also they can get to the margin they need to get to. So, yes.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

That's correct. Yes, that's great.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I hope it's clear.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

No, yes, that's very clear. Just one very quick follow-up on US. Would you say therefore
that the growth prospects in the US are not looking that great?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, I would say for the time being, their growth prospect might be more, yes, limited.
And I don't have a problem with that to be perfectly blunt because I was there many
years, and I as the CFO of Allianz Life, I've never had any issue if the growth was a little bit
slower for some period. And I would not make any statement about what might happen
three years or four years down the road. But to go through a phase of lower production
that happened already also during my time, and I think that's the right way to do things.
And fundamentally, there is still a growing book of business anyway, because the
company is not in a situation where the outﬂows are more than the inﬂow -- more than the
inﬂows if you think almost in a Asset Management logic. So even if we see a little bit less
growth, I would say on the revenue side, I would say the assets under management, they
are still not going to decrease, they're going to slightly increase over time.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

That's very helpful. Thank you, Giulio.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
Our next question today comes from James Shuck of Citi.

Page 22 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, good afternoon. Just a couple of things left from me. Giulio, the restructuring costs
were quite high in the third quarter, we've had EUR400 million or EUR500 million in each
of the last few years. I think previously, the indication was that the restructuring charges
will start to come down, but the world is a diﬀerent place now, and you're talking about
acceleration of plan with ACM. So could you give us some indication about the outlook
for the restructuring charges, please?
Secondly, I just wanted to return to M&A and just understand clear about what your
appetite is for larger deals? I know you've taken a step back from that narrative recently,
but there are certain assets around that becoming cheaper. There's a US P&C asset that
could come on the horizon at some stage. Could you just talk about the potential capacity
you have to do an M&A, a larger M&A deal, should the ﬁnancials stack up, and how likely
you might be to actually pull the trigger on that sort of thing? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So starting from your ﬁrst question about the restructuring charges, I would say that
moving forward, you should expect that we're going to have about EUR500 million of
restructuring charges below the line, and the number might be a little bit higher or a little
bit lower depending on the situation. But I think that you should work based on the
assumption that you're going to see EUR500 million of restructuring below the line, which
is by the way, a combination of three things.
One is what we deﬁne as pure restructuring costs, when you have -- yes, when you go
through restructuring then to integration costs when we do M&A, which from one's point
of view is also similar to our restructuring, then we have also all the IT decommissioning
that we're pushing in order to get to the new IT platform and also to the new overall
business platform that we want to build up -- up with the Allianz Customer Model. So from
that point of view, you had three driver and so you should expect more or less to see
EUR500 million of restructuring costs below the line as we move forward.
On your questions about M&A, I would say the following anyway. I -- I'm not so sure that
prices are really so much lower because it's true the valuation has come down. But what
happens is when you want to -- when you look at the companies that the premium might
go up. So I believe there is a tendency from the seller point of view to normalize almost
the valuation to what would be the level before there was this kind of situation with
COVID that has been driving down the valuation on the insurance side that you saw just
an example yesterday, with the rich premium over the current price. So from that point of
view, I wouldn't say the valuations are coming down signiﬁcantly, if you want to buy
something.
And as far as we're concerned, I would not quote numbers, but clearly, our ability to do
M&A, it's -- is signiﬁcant. The point is we are not in the need to do M&A. We are not in a
hurry to do M&A. So from that point of view, I think that's an option that we have, but
that's not necessarily the thing which is keeping me busy right now on a daily basis, let's
put this way.

Page 23 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

FINAL

Welcome.

Operator
We will now take a question from Michael Haid of Commerzbank. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Two questions. First on the Life new business
generation in the third quarter. When I compare the second quarter to the third quarter, I
noticed a materially more -- a materially more pronounced decline in new business from
recurring premiums in the third quarter, which more than halved year-over-year, that was
not the case in the second quarter. Is this due to the basis eﬀect you mentioned before, I
think it was Italy or is it a broad-based observation? Second question, price increases in
P&C. In the UK, prices in the ﬁrst half increased 5.5% after nine months. This has reduced
to 3.7%. So it appears there may have been some pressure in the third quarter, there was
some decrease in the momentum. Is that the right interpretation or is that something
seasonal going on?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, no, thank you for the questions. I'll start from the ﬁrst one. I don't really know about
the single premium versus recurring premium to be honest, but there is always, I believe
also on a quarterly basis, you can -- you can see some volatility from premium level. To
give you also an example, sometimes you might have a promotion in the United States,
this is going to drive premium in the United States, and premium in the United States are
largely single premium. So I wouldn't read much into that. I believe it's just the
consequence of this volatility, I wouldn't call it seasonality, volatility that you might have
between diﬀerent quarters.
On your question about the UK, the point is what we are showing right now on the UK is -the UK meant as Allianz UK and LV, while we were showing in Q2 was still just Allianz UK.
And we -- what we see, so fundamentally, yes, the comparison is not on the same basis.
What we see in the UK is that on the commercial lines, we have rate increases, which are,
as you pointed out, very substantial. On the personal lines in LV, the rate increases are just
still positive, but not as large as in commercial lines. So this explains why you see now a
diﬀerent number, because -- a lower number because that's weighted for the two entities,
and in Q2, the numbers that we provided was just based on the UK or the Allianz UK
perimeter.
And just any way to speak about the UK pricing momentum that we see in general, if you
ask me, okay, give me now a view, Q3 over Q2 on a combined basis, we still see nice
momentum in commercial lines, but there is a little bit more pressure on the -- on the
personal lines side. So the rate increases that we could get at the beginning of the year in
Page 24 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

personal lines are not the same that we can get now. So the number would have come
down anyway, but not to the level that you have seen because of this diﬀerence in basis of
reporting.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, fantastic. Thanks so much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now take a follow-up question from Michael Huttner of
Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thank you. Thank you, Giulio. And you must be looking for a chilled beer, sorry
-- the -- or a cup of tea. I had two very, very light questions, What is the -- what you're
seeing on net inﬂows in Q4 at PIMCO? And the other question is, is there any update on
those lawsuits which you saw piled during Q3, like from MTA and others relating to the
Structured Alpha funds? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. I don't drink tea, but I like beer. Yes, yes.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Okay. (multiple speakers)

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

So coming on your ﬁrst question on the -- okay, coming from the -- on the net inﬂows, in
October, the net inﬂows at PIMCO were positive, and they were about EUR7 [ph] billion. I
don't remember whether US dollar or euro, but anyway a good number. So from that
point of view as of October, the ﬂows were still positive.
On the lawsuits regarding AGI, there are no news. So we think the -- clearly, the lawsuits
are baseless from our standpoint. From that point of view, we're going to defend
ourselves. I think the process is going to take a long time, just for you to know, it's not
something that is going to be resolved in the next two months, not even in the next year.
So here we are speaking of something that could take several, several years before there
is a conclusion, but from our standpoint, we are strong about our position that the
lawsuits are founded.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Page 25 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Yes, thank you so much. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

FINAL

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

So we have time for one last question, if there's any, Bettina, yes, sorry.

Operator
We currently have no questions in the queue.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Okay, perfect.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much. I hope that you have appreciated the quality of the results of
Allianz this quarter. And again, I don't know what might happen in next quarter, so
towards the end of the year with the volatility that is out there, but we feel conﬁdent about
the underlying performance that we have. And so from that point of view, we think we're
also well positioned as we go into 2021. We're focusing on the things that we can control.
And I believe that when we look through this volatility, I think you can appreciate that
we're taking the right measure, making sure that we're moving Allianz in the right
direction. So thank you for your time. And I wish you, as Michael said a nice beer or a nice
cup of tea. Thank you.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Yes, thanks, and goodbye from my side as well, and have a nice weekend. Bye-bye.

Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
Page 26 of 27



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-11-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

