Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-11-19

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Taizou Ishiguro, Group Leader of Corporate Communications & IR Group

Presentation
Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

Thank you all for joining us. I am Ishiguro of IR Group. I would now like to begin Tokio
Marine Holdings' Earnings Call for Fiscal Year 2020 Second Quarter Results, which we
announced today. Now I would like to share with you the highlights of our performance
from Page 3 of the presentation material.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, top line or net premiums written. In the second quarter, our top line grew by 0.1%
year-on-year or by 4.4%, excluding the currency impact. To break this down in more detail,
top line of domestic non-life business declined by 1.6% over the year, mainly because
CALI premiums were lowered. In the international business, while there was a negative
impact from stronger Japanese yen that was more than offset by execution of overseas
growth strategies, including new consideration of Pure Group as well as rate increases
and top line increased by 3.8% year-on-year.
As for full year projections on top line, we made a slight upward revision to domestic nonlife business from our August projections, mainly due to top line growth in fire and
specialty business. We also made an upward revision to international business on a local
currency basis due to rate increases in developed market. So the underlying trend is
favorable overall, but in Japanese yen term, due to the appreciation of Japanese yen, we
made a downward revision by JPY10 billion.
Next, life insurance premiums in the international business increased due to rate increase
in medical stop-loss business of TMHCC. However, top line of domestic life business
declined due to increased surrender in corporate insurance. As a result, life insurance
premiums declined by 3.2% year-on-year. For full year, we made a slight upward revision
on the domestic business. We also revised our projection in the international life insurance
business upwardly as the negative impact of stronger Japanese yen is expected to be
offset by steady rate increases at TMHCC. And for our life business overall, we revised
our top line projection upwardly by JPY10 billion.
Next bottom line or statutory consolidated net income in the second quarter declined by
JPY54.2 billion over the year to JPY62.3 billion, mainly due to the negative impact of
COVID-19 by JPY73 billion. To highlight the key points here for the major three businesses.
In the domestic non-life business, bottom line increased by JPY41.2 billion year-on-year
due to decline in accident rate attributable to COVID-19 and year-on-year decrease in
natural catastrophes in addition to the favorable growth at the top line.
Page 1 of 3



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-11-19

FINAL

Next domestic life business grew its top line by JPY9.5 billion over the year, mainly due to
the absence of increased expenses on system development that we booked last year.
International business, in addition to the negative impact of the pandemic by JPY86 billion
as we completed the acquisition of Pure Group in February this year and began the
depreciation of its goodwill and intangible fixed assets, the bottom line declined by
JPY107.3 billion over the year.
Next to review our full year projection on the bottom line, please turn to Page 4. As for
statutory consolidated net income, we made an upward revision by JPY25 billion from our
August projection. To look into more detail, we revised up the projection for domestic
non-life business by JPY17 billion. While losses related to natural catastrophes are
expected to increase from our August projection, that is expected to be more than
covered by takedowns of cat loss reserve, improved impact of COVID-19 and increase in
earned premiums backed by top line growth. We also revised upwardly projection on the
domestic life business by JPY6 billion, mainly due to sales gains of foreign bonds and
decrease in hedge costs. International insurance is revised downwardly by JPY3.1 billion,
but this is attributable to JPY10.4 billion impairment losses on equities of our life
subsidiary, which is now consolidated to our group. So the underlying business trend is in
line with our plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next on adjusted net income, which is a source of shareholder return. Adjusted net
income was revised up by JPY22 billion from August projection to JPY332 billion after
excluding impact of catastrophe loss reserves and impact of impairment losses on
equities and overseas subsidiary. Impacts of COVID-19 on full year forecast is on Page 5
and income of natural catastrophes is on Page 7.
Lastly, let me turn to ESR and shareholder return. Please jump to Page 31 in the slide deck
and our news release on shareholder return. Level of ESR as of end of September 2020
was 165% before capital adjustment with contributions in the first half and improved
market environment. This level is up 12 points from end of March 2020. We have today
announced a capital adjustment of JPY50 billion, which brings the ESR to a level of 163%.
Let me explain our thought process. First of all, ESR of 165% is within our target range. As
long as we are within the target range, the company will strategically consider business
investment and/or additional risk-taking and/or shareholder return. This policy remains
unchanged. On top of that, economic conditions under the pandemic or a sense of
uncertainty of the market has somewhat improved from the earlier stage, and the impact
of natural catastrophes is expected to be not as big a few years ago. While we still remain
committed to actively pursue business investment growth as capital accumulation from
income can be anticipated, we have decided to make capital adjustments.
Ordinary dividend for fiscal year 2020 remains unchanged from the beginning of the year.
JPY100 per share to be paid as interim dividend and JPY200 per share for the full year,
which is a JPY10 increase, an increase in dividend for nine years in a row. Details of
shareholder return will be explained on Investor Day next week.

Page 2 of 3



FINAL

Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-11-19

Lastly but not least, natural catastrophes we have been experiencing in the last few years
and the ongoing COVID-19 puts us in a challenging business environment. What the
company must do in spite of that is to increase our capabilities, the earning power of the
group in a stable manner and to strive towards achieving our goal, adjusted net income of
over JPY500 billion and adjusted ROE of about 12%. This is what we intend to explain
thoroughly at the Investor Day scheduled next week. We are committed to responding to
our shareholders' expectations by enhancing profitability over the medium and long-term
in a stable manner. Your continued understanding and cooperation is greatly appreciated.
This is all for me.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 3 of 3

