Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

Q3 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Guido Maria Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, General Manager & Director

Other Participants
Alberto Villa
Gianluca Ferrari
Giovanni Razzoli
Manuela Meroni

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Poste Italiane's Third Quarter 2020
Results, presented by CEO, Matteo Del Fante; and our Group CFO, Guido Nola. Following
the presentation, we will be glad to answer your questions.
And now, let me pass it over to Matteo.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us, This is Matteo del Fante. First of all, please
allow me to say I hope you and your families are well and safe. I will take you through the
highlights of the quarter before handing over to our CFO, Guido Nola, for a more
detailed business review. I will then provide some closing remarks before we open the
call for questions.
Let me start on Slide number 3 with a quick overview of quarterly results. The third quarter
saw tangible signs of recovery across all segments with performances that are
comparable to those recorded the same quarter last year. Mail, parcel and distribution
operating proﬁt improved this quarter, with parcel and distribution revenue growth
oﬀsetting mail decline.
In ﬁnancial and insurance services, product sales are steady recovering, supported by
commercial focus with a strong EUR 20 billion increase of total ﬁnancial assets since
December 2019.

Page 1 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

In payments and mobile, we continue to experience increasing traﬃc in telco and more ecommerce transaction in digital and payments. While we're still facing uncertainty, we
continue to focus on our ongoing transformation, taking advantage of our diversiﬁed
business model and resilience.
We conﬁrm that the key trends such as mail decline, e-commerce penetration, ultra-low
interest rate and increased demand for digital payments and connectivity are here to stay
and we had long pursued them. In order to provide further clarity of future trends and
match them with credible targets, it is our intention to review and update our Deliver '22
plan early in 2021.
With the third quarter performance back on track, we gained more visibility on full-year
results, and we conﬁrm our Deliver 2022 digital policy for 2020, distributing an interim
dividend of EUR0.162 per share, up 5% compared to last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to Slide 4. In March, we had to face an unprecedented situation, setting up
new solution to face the emergency, both in terms of processes, business and PPEs. We
took timely action to protect our employees, safeguard our customers and support our
communities. Now we beneﬁted from that experience and we're currently unfortunately
facing the new wave. We're committed to ensure business continuity, providing essential
services to our communities with the highest safety standards.
Moving to Slide 5. This year represented an opportunity to rethink positive positioning
across all segments. The acceleration of mail decline and parcel growth conﬁrms a sight
in our strategy to invest in parcel. The joint delivery model for both postal and express
courier services is now fully operational, enabling us to maximize the situation of our
network. The automated parcel sorting center in Bologna that some of you visited last
year is currently above the full capacity and has been key in meeting increasing parcel
demand throughout the year.
We've just opened a greenﬁeld hub in Rome. And according to plans, we're going to
open a third one in Northern Italy by the ﬁrst quarter of 2021. This sorting center is similar
in size to the one in Bologna. This new facility will allow us to increase daily sorting
capacity to manage B2C volumes and enlarge our express oﬀering B2B, and also
reducing our variable cost base in parcel. Starting from scratch in 2018, we are now a
leader in B2C in Italy. We're also focusing on B2B business segment and on the
development of services of warehousing, storage and integrated logistics.
Moving to ﬁnancial and insurance, the key challenge is to manage an ultra-low-for-longer
interest rate environment. The structure of our investment portfolio allow us to stabilize
the contribution to P&L under all interest scenario, balancing the mix of interest income
and capital gain, leveraging on our active portfolio management with long duration and
positive inﬂows.
In Insurance in order to smoothen out the market volatility for our customer early this year,
we launched a new gradual accumulation multi-class life policy. And by the end of the
month, we'll also launch a new capital light Class I and multi-class life insurance products,
Page 2 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

which represent a milestone in our ability to balance the commercial appeal and capital
absorption, contributing to reduce the volatility of positive income solvency II ratio going
forward, a meaningful step forward for our sales force.
As part of our digital transformation, we intend to engage with customer remotely for
advisory and sale. And Increasing demand for digital and contactless payment further
support PostePay in cross-selling between mobile and payments. Poste continues to
widen its oﬀer on cashless payments, also taking advantage of the upcoming government
cash back program. Telco is expected to be resilient with increasing margin going
forward. At group level, we accelerated our cost control strategy to increase the visibility
of operating proﬁtability.
Starting from the ﬁrst quarter, we adopted a combined strategy, addressing early
retirement, temporary workers and hiring, in line with our track record of eﬀective FTE
management. Our revenue mix will evolve. A larger contribution will come from activity
with higher percentage of variable costs such as parcel and telco. Our priority will then be
to reduce cost per unit to gain eﬃciency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, let me highlight that the successful implementation of our strategy beneﬁts from
the comprehensive reorganization implemented back in May, with the centralization of all
functions driving our digital transformation in a single structure, named DTO, acting as a
key business enabling unit in digital technology and operations.
Moving to Slide 6. We did not just manage our business to weather the crisis, we
proactively proposed and responded to the emerging client needs. In mail and parcel, we
widened the scope of our business, opening up to logistics and warehousing services.
Inbound volumes from China continued to grow at a record pace, thanks to our ability to
oﬀer end-to-end services to track items.
We continue to focus on logistics digitalization, leveraging on the partnership with
sennder, we're improving the eﬃciency of long-haul transportation. Through Milkman,
we're focusing on customer experience with premium schedule delivery services, now
available in 12 Italian cities and still growing.
In ﬁnancial services, we're working on a new partnership to improve our oﬀer on lone
distribution. We've successfully distributed New Postal bonds campaign products with a
speciﬁc focus on retaining funds from expiring products and we shortly distribute a new
over 65 bonds with features similar to a retirement pension plan.
In payment and mobile, we widened the range of products introduced, a Postepay virtual
card, exclusively sold online. In insurance, our P&C modular oﬀer is now fully operational.
Poste now ranks second in non-motor P&C bank insurance in Italy.
Moving to group ﬁnancial results on Slide number 7. Improving operational trends
underpin the solid progression of our quarterly result increasing year-on-year. Group
revenues amount to EUR 2.6 billion in the quarter, up 1% year-on-year and EUR 7.7 billion

Page 3 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

in the nine months. Total cost remained ﬂat in the third quarter and down 1.8% in the nine
months, with savings compensating one-oﬀ emergency costs.

FINAL

As mentioned last quarter, we leverage on our ﬂexibility on cost to compensate revenue
headwinds, enhanced structural eﬃciency and ensure the sustainability of the businesses.
We're achieving a signiﬁcant operational improvement with EBIT up 10% in Q3, excluding
one-oﬀ costs to face the emergency of COVID, and reaching EUR 1.3 billion year-to-date.
On a reported basis, EBIT for the quarter is around EUR 480 million, up 4% and EUR 1.24
billion in the nine months, down 19% year-on-year. Thanks to the resilience of our
business, net proﬁt stands at EUR 353 million in the third quarter, up 10% year-on-year,
reaching EUR 900 million in the nine months.
Slide 8 shows how the third quarter bottomed out from the previous quarter low point,
the most impacted by restriction. Positive performance higher than the same period last
year and the ﬁrst quarter of 2020, with the exception of payment and mobile which has
been growing steadily each quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the top left side, you can see how parcel growth mitigated the decline in mail
revenues, with the overall segment in revenue down only 3% after a fall of 12% and 20% in
Q1 and Q2, respectively. This was possible, thanks to organic growth in parcel delivery.
The ﬁnancial segment recovered since last quarter, booking EUR 1.2 billion revenues in
Q3, ﬂat year-on-year after a 9% decline recorded in Q2, thanks to a restart of commercial
activity since June, in particular due to strong momentum on postal savings bond
distribution.
Payment and mobile revenues continued to grow steadily, registering an increase of 8% in
Q3, fueled by e-commerce transactions and steady growth in telco. Insurance services
revenue landed at over EUR 450 million, up 7% year-on-year, rebounding from the 16%
decline of Q2 and higher than 5% yearly growth book in Q1. This is a very solid result,
which was possible thanks to the upstream in commercial activities, resulting in higher
gross and net inﬂows year-on-year.
Moving to Slide 9. As we mentioned during the ﬁrst quarter, the crisis represented an
opportunity to rethink our cost base in a structural way. Our approach is not focused on
short-term results but rather on ensuring that the cost base is the most eﬃcient to support
our growth. To preserve future proﬁtability, we have demonstrated our ﬂexibility in
reducing cost base on the severity of revenue headwinds.
As already mentioned, we have a strong track record in actively managing our FDA base
to reduce HR cost. We're pushing our insourcing program for the reskilling and upskilling
of selected employees to internalize speciﬁc activities, obtaining cost eﬃciency and
streamline internal processes. As already mentioned, we're also optimizing variable costs
related to growing telco and parcel volumes. Finally, we're reviewing our real estate
portfolio, focusing on non-core business and rationalizing non-commercial assets,
creating eﬃciency while unlocking value.

Page 4 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

In the next 2 slides, you will see certain business trends we have experienced since the
beginning of the year, during and post- lockdown across all segments. As you can see on
Slide 10, commercial activities recovered from lockdown, with a steady increase in digital
and third-party network transactions, accounting for up to almost 1/3 of overall
transactions.
Consistently with non-market trends, mail and parcel volumes show diverging
performances, with mail decline persisting year-on-year although at a slower pace, and
B2C parcel volume steadily increases since lockdown and year-on-year.
Moving to Slide 11, ﬁnancial and insurance services as well as payment and mobile are
back to business with commercial activities picking up year-on-year. Daily gross inﬂows
recorded a good pace compared to both the beginning of the year and 2019, excluding
August gross inﬂows reached an average of EUR 850 -- EUR 185 million per day with a
65% increase year-on-year. A positive trend is also conﬁrmed in terms of distribution of
P&C products, thanks to our modular oﬀer. In payment, Postepay card transaction grew
safely, thanks to e-commerce growth with customer widening the scope of their
spending. Telco continues to progress with a wider customer base reaching 4.6 million up
3% year-on-year. All the mentioned operational trends are conﬁrmed for the last few
weeks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now hand over to Guido, who will take you through a more detailed business
review. I will then provide some ﬁnancial comments before -- ﬁnal comments before we
answer your questions. Over to you, Guido.

Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo, and good afternoon, everyone. Let's start with a quick overview of
each segment revenues, starting with mail, parcel and distribution on Slide 13. Segment
revenues were overall steady in the quarter with parcel growing EUR 91 million, almost
completely oﬀsetting EUR 110 million revenue decline in mail.
At operating level, EBIT improved by 34.7% year-on-year, recovering from last quarter's
bottom-low, thanks to higher distribution revenues. Looking at revenues breakdown, the
mail component was down 20% year-on-year, posting a better performance than Q2. The
recovery of high-margin mail products is still subdued, due to some long-lasting eﬀects of
COVID-related government policies.
On the parcel side, revenues continue to grow at a record pace, by 46% in the quarter,
boosted by B2C. Distribution revenues increased 7%, thanks to resumed commercial
activities in Q3. Based on current visibility, we envisage mail revenue decline to stabilize at
around 20% in 2020, well in excess of the 5% long-term decline embedded in our
strategic plan. About half of such further decline can be considered a permanent eﬀect of
an accelerated e-substitution. The other half is related to the suspension of higher-margin
items sent, which are expected to be back in 2021.

Page 5 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

On Slide 14, we look at volume and pricing trends from mail and parcel. Overall volumes - overall mail volumes fell 14.8% in the third quarter with higher margin recorded mail and
direct marketing products contracting at a slower pace versus Q2. Product mix impacted
mail average tariﬀ, which went down 5% in the quarter, posting a better performance than
the second quarter.
On the parcel side, volumes are up across all products. B2C volumes grew strongly by
55% in the quarter supported by an ongoing diversiﬁcation of the customer base. We
now beneﬁt from a stronger logistics chain along with four pillars, which embody the
successful execution of our parcel strategy: ﬁrst, the joint delivery model for mail and
parcel networks; second, automated parcel sorting centers, which Matteo commented on
earlier; third, long-haul announced eﬃciency ; and lastly, additional premium services
such as scheduled delivery. Parcel average tariﬀ is also up by 6 percentage points
reﬂecting additional logistics and rewriting services, which are deploying and B2C
average prices up 4 percentage point's year-on-year.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 15, we provide you with monthly data on volumes, including those of October to
give you further granularity on trends. Monthly volumes decline started to stabilize since
June to around minus 20% year-to-date, a trend that we have observed since the end of
the quarter, and we expect to continue until year end.
Slide 16 shows the monthly evolution of parcel volumes until October. As you've already
seen, since March, volumes continue to signiﬁcantly increase with record-high B2C.
Volumes contribution from China remains robust, with inbound parcels volume 2 to 3
times higher than last year since July, thanks to a close cooperation with our Chinese
partners, oﬀering key services such as end-to-end tracking.
Moving to payment and mobile on Slide 17. Revenues continue to increase, up 8.2% in Q3.
Our integrated strategy for telco and payment continues to pay oﬀ, with telco revenues
up by a strong 11%, thanks to a wider customer base, allowing us to reach a 5.5% market
share in mobile. Traﬃc volumes both on mobile and ﬁxed line increased along the trends
witnessed during last quarters, both for voice and data.
As you know by now, this has limited eﬀect on revenues as most clients pay ﬂat fares. Card
payment revenues were up 9%, in line with the trend witnessed in previous quarters with
increasing top-ups and transactions. In particular, Postepay card, e-commerce transaction,
increased in scope and volume, up 45% in Q3 and continue to show a steady growth.
Other payments were negatively impacted by the deferral of tax payments. Intercompany
revenues, mostly from ﬁnancial services were down, due to the decrease in physical
payment states, only partially compensated by higher payments through our third-party
networks and digital platforms. Q3 EBIT remained strong and in line with 2019, which
beneﬁted from lower intersegment cost, while 2020 embeds higher costs related to
increased telco traﬃc.
Moving to ﬁnancial services on Slide 18. Segment revenues were up 2% in the quarter to
EUR 1.4 billion notwithstanding a decline in transaction banking due to fewer payment
Page 6 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

slips and a negative yield environment impacting interest income. This quarter shows
continued signs of a steady recovery. After suspension during knockdown of commercial
activities of both ﬁnancial and insurance products, which marked the performance of the
ﬁrst half of the year, Going line by line. Interest income was down 3% year-on-year with
higher volumes partially mitigating the impact of yield compression.
No capital gains were booked this quarter. Postal savings distribution fees were up 11% to
a record high, thanks to the campaign products successfully distributed via physical and
digital channels, targeting signiﬁcant expiries and redemptions. Asset management fees
were resilient year-on-year, thanks to recurring commissions. Loan and mortgage
distribution upfront fees were impacted year-on-year by macro uncertainty while volumes
are resuming, thanks to dedicated commercial activities.
Transaction banking fees were down 10%, mainly due to fewer payment slips as
commented already in payment and mobile. Net capital gains remaining for 2020 are
already secured with forward contracts to be accounted for in the fourth quarter. Given
current market conditions and yields, we have already started to secure a part of capital
gains planned for 2021. Intersegment distribution revenues were up 17%, mainly for the
revamp of commercial activities from insurance products. EBIT is down 5.7% this quarter,
mainly due to higher rebates to the network.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to Slide 19. TFAs reached EUR 556 billion, up by almost EUR 8 billion since June
and by a signiﬁcant EUR 20.3 billion since the beginning of the year, supported by EUR
11.2 billion positive net inﬂows across all asset classes and EUR 9.1 billion positive market
eﬀect.
Customers conﬁrm the trust in our brand, with EUR 9.8 billion of inﬂows from retail as
demonstrated by signiﬁcant gross inﬂows from postal savings distribution amounting to
EUR 21 billion, oﬀsetting redemptions and conﬁrming the key role of such products,
especially in this market environment. Deposit increased by EUR 7.9 billion, conﬁrming a
clear preference of customers for liquidity, which will be addressed by commercial
initiatives into next year. And net technical provisions up EUR 7.6 billion, thanks to EUR 3.6
billion positive net inﬂows on insurance multi-class products.
And now moving to Slide 20. As already mentioned, insurance services quarterly
revenues were supported by a steady recovery of commercial activity, with gross and net
inﬂows of EUR 4.6 billion and EUR 1.9 billion respectively in the quarter, increasing yearon-year by roughly EUR 1 billion each.
Life revenues were up 8% year-on-year due to increased production and higher
management fees from multi-class products. Investment margin also increased,
supported by higher technical returns. We also decided to partially frontload portfolio
returns to take advantage of favorable market conditions. Net inﬂows in the quarter were
the highest over the past two years.
Non-life net revenues were resilient, in line with expectations. EBIT was up by 1%. Both
revenues and EBIT for the nine months are in line with 2019 results, showing that the
Page 7 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

shock coming from the lockdown was entirely absorbed in this last quarter.
Let's move to Slide 21. Poste Vita group Solvency II ratio stood at 250%, not taking into
account transitional measures well above our managerial ambition of 200% through the
cycle. The Solvency II ratio beneﬁted from a positive performance of all asset classes.
Favorable market environment is reﬂected insigniﬁcant unrealized capital gains that as of
today exceeded EUR 17 billion, more than oﬀsetting the negative impact of lower risk-free
rates and a lower volatility adjustments. If we take out the eﬀect of regulatory restrictions
on dividend distribution, Poste Vita Solvency II ratio would have stood at 244%, assuming
50% payout to the parent.
Let's move to Slide 22, with an overview of the sensitivities of the Solvency II ratio.
Solvency II ratio remains in line with our risk tolerance threshold under all assumed
scenarios. Solvency ratio is high and transitional measures provide an additional buﬀer to
face potential market headwinds, which we consider unlikely under the current
macroeconomic and monetary policy environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same time, we keep working to reduce the volatility of the ratio going forward,
along three streams: ﬁrst, we are developing an internal model; second, we are
diversifying our investment portfolio; and lastly, we are eﬀectively reviewing our liabilities,
with the launch of new capital-light products as mentioned by Matteo. All these actions
don't bear fruit immediately and ensure the long-term sustainability of PosteVita's growth.
Slide 23. We go back to group level, updating you on Poste's workforce evolution. Our
average headcount decreased from 129,000 in December '19 to below 125,000 at the end
of September '20, approaching ahead of plan, and our target of 123,000 FTEs by 2022.
This conﬁrms our ability to promptly react to the revenue headwinds experienced in the
ﬁrst half, in mail in particular.
We have been eﬀective in balancing early retirements, temporary staﬀ and new hiring
following the recent evolution of business needs and creating sustainable eﬃciencies. In
this sense, we managed the exit of 7,900 FTEs and the termination of 1,600 ﬁxed-term
contracts. On the other hand, we hired 4,800 FTEs, as we continue to believe that skilled
people are a key enabler of a successful transformation, taking into account
organizational size and skill required in speciﬁc business areas. Finally, the number of
FTEs and their remuneration contributed to a reduction of cost per capita.
Moving to group HR costs on Slide 24. Production of 4,400 FTEs year-on-year, resulting in
savings for around EUR 44 million on a quarterly basis. Total compensation is broadly
stable with an increase in the ﬁxed component, oﬀset by a decrease in the variable one. In
Q3, commercial incentives are in line with last year due to the revamped commercial
activity.
Moving to Slide 25. Non-HR costs overall, amount to EUR 750 million, increasing on a
reported basis by 6.8% year-on-year. Going into detail, our focus on cost discipline is clear
and balanced with the need to preserve business growth and safety during the pandemic.
In fact, out of the EUR 51 million increase, EUR 28 million are one-oﬀ cost in safety
Page 8 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

emergency, providing the highest health and safety standards to protect employees and
customers, and EUR 43 million support higher volumes in growing businesses such as
parcels and telco. These costs were already envisaged in our plan, but they emerged
earlier due to the acceleration of key trends.
To cure the cost per unit going forward, we're working on eﬃciency measures such as the
new parcel sorting centers and the new wholesale contract in telco mentioned by Matteo.
Therefore, excluding emergency one-oﬀs and business-driven costs, non-HR costs were
down EUR 20 million year-on-year. G&A costs decreased by EUR 16 million. The positive
eﬀect of the reassessment of the residual useful life of certain group real assets completed
in H1 reduced D&A of some EUR 30 million. Such positive eﬀect was partially oﬀset by
increased CapEx related mainly to digital transformation IT developments.
Turning to Slide 26, you can see an update on cost reduction initiatives in Q3. Back in
March, we presented our full year 2019 results, just a few days before a general lockdown
in Italy. We were braced to weather a storm of unprecedented magnitude with a high
degree of uncertainty. We proactively identiﬁed over EUR 1 billion potential cost reduction
initiatives as contingency measures against revenue headwinds.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Q1, we present this slide to show the diﬀerent levers we could activate depending on
the severity of the downturn. We seized these unfortunate times as an opportunity for a
strategic review, to act on our cost base in a structural manner, to preserve the
sustainability of our businesses in 2020 and beyond. Our goal was indeed to strengthen
proﬁtability in '21 and onwards, and not just to book a better result in 2020.
Still, also during 2020, we are providing you with tangible signs of cost reduction,
identifying savings to be realized already in 2020. This exercise will bear fruit in the
upcoming years, since it has changed the way we do business. In this sense, as already
mentioned, we're working on eﬃciencies to reduce the cost per unit in telco and parcels
going forward.
Now, let's move to Slide 27, showing an improvement of operating proﬁts in the quarter
across all segments. This is a very signiﬁcant result considering the diﬃcult year we've
been through and considering that we are also comparing it to 2019 record-high results.
As anticipated, mail, parcel and distribution quarterly operating proﬁtability improved
year-on-year, bottoming out from Q2 low point. In ﬁnancial services, resumption of
commercial activities in Q3 was strong, while the eﬀect is not visible on EBIT, only because
of higher rebates to the network. Payment and mobile is stable year-on-year, in
comparison to a strong Q3 '19, while quarterly progression continues steadily.
Finally, insurance services posted a strong performance, conﬁrming an upward quarterly
trend. Here again, our solid commercial performance is not fully reﬂected at operating
level because of higher rebates to the network.
Let me now hand back to Matteo for some closing remarks. Thank you very much.

Page 9 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Guido. Before taking your question, let me conclude with some key messages.
We are on Slide number 28. So the third quarter, saw a strong operating performance,
conﬁrming the resilience of our business model across all segments.
Speciﬁcally, total ﬁnancial assets were up EUR 20 billion since the beginning of the year,
thanks to strong retail net inﬂows and positive market eﬀect, a clear conﬁrmation of
customer trust in Poste and the ability of our network. The results achieved so far give us
the conﬁdence to conﬁrm our dividend policy for 2020 with the payment of an interim
dividend increasing 5% year-on-year versus last year, November interim.
There is still uncertainty for the coming months, there is no doubt about that. But we're
committed to ensure business continuity, and we have shown a very high degree of
resilience in our operation and in our results. We beneﬁt from past experience, and we're
ready to keep growing our business and implement our strategy with renewed focus and
energy.
And before we move to Q&A, I would like to thank you for joining us today. Over to you,
Massimiliano.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
The ﬁrst question is from Gian luca Ferrari Mediobanca. Please, Gianluca.

Q - Gianluca Ferrari

{BIO 15042989 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, good afternoon. I have three questions. The ﬁrst one is on mail volumes. So,
basically Q3, you reported minus 14.8 year-on-year, much better than minus 24 in Q2. I
was wondering, if for the fourth quarter, we can expect a single-digit decline, which would
mean that the minus 17.8 in the nine months could become something like minus 15 for full
year '20? The second one is on PosteVita, so basically you didn't get the divi from
PosteVita this year, you don't need it to cover the dividend because of the distributable
reserves you have with the parent company. I was wondering if the regulators will allow
distribution of dividends for bank and insurers, will you pay the divi in Q1 or ﬁrst half next
year or the 2019 will be kept in the company just to reinforce the solvency even though it
is very, very strong already? The third and ﬁnal is on the revenues from B2C parcels,
amazingly Q3 didn't show any reduction compared to Q2, even though people could buy
in physical shops and not only online. I was wondering what are you experiencing now in
Q4 to-date, so is this plus 50%, 55% year-on-year conﬁrmed in Q4 or there is a degree of
normalization and this percentage is declining a bit? Thank you.

Page 10 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Gian luca. I will start with the -- in reverse order with the last question on
B2C which I can handle. Yes, we were very happy to register a very strong Q3, so in a after
COVID environment we still see signiﬁcant volumes. And more importantly, we're still
seeing those volumes in the last few days in November, October was actually even better
than September. So it's quite consolidated. We are entering to peak period and I believe
we're going to break the all-time high in December of EUR 20 million parcel delivery in a
month, which Poste never registered. So the trend is solid.
On mail volumes, Guido, you want to?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So, on the ﬁrst point if I can ask to go to Page 13, I will try to help you, because we
understand this is a very relevant point to try to read the numbers for mail and parcel for
the remainder of the year. So if you look at the last bullet on the right, we said that before
taking into account the eﬀects of this new wave of, say, lockdowns, we have working
around, a number around 20% in terms of revenue decline for the year, which means that
we have predicted this slow still recovery but obviously not a too signiﬁcant one versus
last year. On the other point, on the question on the dividend, Poste Vita, our read at the
moment is that the ban, the prohibition to distribute dividends will be lifted from what we
can read at the moment in 2021. And then your question is, are you going to go back and
uplift the 2020. We will consider it, but it's something that will be done in the context of
keeping our insurance company solid with our managerial expectation of staying above
200 insolvency. And anyway, this decision will be communicated clearly to the market in
early 2021 with the update of our plan.

Q - Gianluca Ferrari

{BIO 15042989 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you, Gianluca. The next question is from Giovanni Razzoli from Equita. Giovanni,
please.

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Two questions on my side. I've seen that there has been very strong
rebound of the mark-to-market on the current trade portfolio of BancoPosta to EUR 2.2
billion plus you have the capital gain on SIA for next year. It seems to me that your capital
position and your room for dividend distribution is extremely solid. Do you share this view
? and if you can please quantify what is going to be the positive impact of the transaction
on SIA? That's my ﬁrst question. The ﬁrst -- the second question related to the, for Guido,
to the increase in the price index that you have recorded in the parcel, you've mentioned
that there has been some additional services in the logistics, if you can share with us more
color on this very supportive trend? And then the last question about the eﬀect of this
kind of soft loss, down that you are experiencing in some regions in Italy. I was wondering
whether we should see at the volumes or the trend in the volumes in October. So better
Page 11 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

than what we've seen in March as a possible guidance in terms of volumes for the next
couple of months. Keeping in mind that you have provided this minus 20% guidance in
terms of revenues? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

Yes, we usually give -- formally, oﬃcially in our records the net mark-to-market of the
BancoPosta portfolio, which you've seen on the 2.1. But we also told you that, we have
today 3.5 and is actually growing. So enough ammunitions to face the low rate
environment, you might want to add that the EUR 400 million of SIA, which we will not
see going to our income statement in 2020, because the merger with Nexi will be
completed in 2021. This will reinforce on one end our capital position and allow us to
have a buﬀer versus a low interest rate environment. But as you know we have already
performed additional transaction realizing capital gain for 2020 in the region of a EUR
100 million for the last quarter, which you'd see at the next reporting date. And we have
also started realizing capital gains for 2021, because you know Giovanni that we try to
present plans where we want to read it for investors the amount of uncertainty on our
revenues, and so as we have always done, we try to come at what we're planning or
strategic planning update exercise beginning of 2021 with already some work done on
the capital gain components. On the improvement on logistic, Guido.

A - Guido Maria Nola

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yes. So improving on logistics if I can ask you to -- the last to go to Page 14, so everyone
can see what you were referring to. Yes, you see that pricing is going up in the quarter.
And this is due to two things. First of all B2C prices actually went up. So within the
segment normally, we tell you it goes down because of the mix, this time although the mix
goes in that direction within B2C, the average tariﬀ was up. Second as you pointed out
and as I said in my speech, we are doing more and more warehousing business for our
clients which tends not to have direct link to volumes and that overall brings that number
up.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

And, sorry, if I may add, you have also a component of new business, new clients brought
on board we told you that we took the opportunity of the lockdown in April to completely
restructure our commercial team we had today 1,200 people selling to corporates. And
since the 1st of July, the new organization, the team is organized by industry, which is
quite new to some extent to the sector, to the industry, but in the ﬁrst few months, we can
tell you that this is proving extremely eﬀective in understanding clients and gaining
market share. Additionally, we keep swinging the B2C business away from Amazon, and
the key big players growing the smaller more margin players this year, we don't disclose
the percentage, as you know, of wallet of our key clients, but I can tell you that the key
client has gone down in revenue terms versus last year around 15% of our revenue base
15, 1-5, which is quite meaningful.

Operator
The next question is --

Page 12 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

FINAL

I didn't answer the last one on lockdown. So, very brieﬂy, I think we have some reference
points but not too many as the new measures just a little bit more than a week old. We are
monitoring the three diﬀerent colors yellow, orange and red. We'd done on -- and this is
on diﬀerent segments. We don't see yet very signiﬁcant impact. Obviously we see the
diﬀerence between red and yellow zones, but those diﬀerences are not meaningful yet.
So More to come on this.

Operator
The next question has been submitted by -- on our platform, and it's from Alberto
Cordara from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. So let me read it on his behalf.
Congratulations on the very good results. Can you give us some more details with respect
to the cost cutting actions and, in particular, if we should expect some upfront charges in
Q4?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think there is more to do in cost reduction and I think I'm putting a lot of time with my
Senior Management to get as much traction as possible. I believe that there is more we
can get out of this company, the space, both in HR and non-HR. The accelerated trends in
mail and parcel are probably giving us an opportunity to accelerate the transformation of
the company. Transformation of the company means also transformation of the workforce
of the company. So that could mean, to answer speciﬁcally, the question that Q4 we could
consider some frontloading of restructuring charges that will come in 2021 and '22, which
is more or less in-line with what we've done every year, but we think that this year is
clearly an opportunity for that.

Operator
Your next question is from Manuela Meroni Banca IMI. Please, Manuela.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Barely I have four questions. The ﬁrst one is on interest income.
Interest income declined year-on-year due to the decline in interest rates, could you help
us understand the evolution of the interest income going forward assuming a stable
interest rates? How many government bonds will expire in 2021? And what is the yield
attached to this expiring government bonds? What is the yield at which you currently
reinvest and there are derivative structures in place that may impact the evolution of
interest income?
The second question is a follow-up on a previous answer. Considering that interest rates
will remain low for long, it is right to say that you could use part of your unrealized capital
gains to stabilize the overall contribution of your government bond portfolio in the next
years? And the third question is on postal savings. Postal savings revenues have reached a
record high in this quarter, despite negative net inﬂow. I assume that you had a signiﬁcant
Page 13 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

FINAL

maturities in this quarter on postal bonds, so I'm wondering, how many postal bonds will
mature in 2021? And can you provide an update on the negotiation with the CDP for the
renewal of the distribution agreement? So if the new agreement is based on the same
characteristic as before focused on new production with a maximum and minimum level
of revenues and so on?
And the fourth question is on cost, possible. Thanks For all the information you provide on
cost evolution. In the third quarter operating costs were ﬂat year-on-year with cost
eﬃciency action oﬀsetting the emergency related cost and the business related costs, so
what is that you are going, going forward? Do you expect the cost saving initiatives to
oﬀset the increase of business-related costs? Or maybe we can also expect cost to decline
in absolute terms oﬀshore, excluding all the non recurring costs related to ?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. I can start maybe with the last one which is -- and I don't mean to be light in the
answer. Clearly, as we said in the presentation, we have two businesses which are growing
signiﬁcantly with the digitalization of the work and our client habits, which are basically
the telco, the payment and the parcel delivery. And those growth in revenues that we are
experiencing, I'm looking at payments and parcels, speciﬁcally is bringing higher cost
with it. We have done a big eﬀort in the last few weeks to cure and deﬁne a lower basis -signiﬁcantly lower base on the telco component. And it's public information that we have
signed a new contract for our roaming services, which is going to be handed over to
Vodafone. From 2021 the date is still under consideration because obviously there are
technical steps that we need to take to move our clients to the new network. So that's
something real we have done.
On parcel, the new sorting centers, which are much more automated, not only are
allowing us to give the best service and to minimize the mistakes and the reworking of the
ﬂow of sorting that we manage today. But obviously, will reduce our cost to serve that
platform. So that's another meaningful step that will reduce that cost base. Answering the
big question, is this going to counterbalance the increase that we're seeing. It's exactly
the heart of the plan, we're working on, so you need to be patient and very beginning of
2021 you'll have the answer. For postal savings, I'm answering the question in reverse
order. We are experiencing for 2019 and, sorry, for 2021, '22 and '23, a signiﬁcant increase
versus the average of expiry of postal bonds we have in the last three years. We are
estimating as much as 50% 5 - 0 increase in expiry. So there is going to be a lot of work to
be performed in the next three years in postal savings and, we are moving forward,
negotiating with CDP on the new agreement that will cover '21, '23.
The second answer is easy with low interest rates, are you going to use, I think yes, we
don't want to over use our capital gain, but if you remember, we always say that the
interest rate -- the interest income component, and the capital gain component are
balancing each other. This was a risk page we presented back in February 2018 in our
Capital Markets Day. We were on page 12 and 13 of that presentation. When interest rates
are lower, we are going to use more capital gains to bring the same total amount of
revenues. You have to consider that we bought in 2020 almost EUR 12 billion of bonds
with an average yield which is well above 1.5 , and that is going to help supporting the

Page 14 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

interest margin of the rest of the plan, for the next 3 years. And I think this is answering
also. I don't know Guido, if you want to add anything.

FINAL

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Thank you. You said it all. The only number that also was asked was how many expiries we
had next year? That number is similar to what we had this year and is about less than EUR
9 billion. I think we can go to the next question.

Operator
Yes. Thank you. So the next question is from Alberto Villa from Intermonte. Alberto,
please.

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, hi. Good afternoon. I wanted to focus a bit on the payment and mobile, especially on
the Payment side. We have seen the EBITDA being ﬂat also due to the comparison with
last year. I was wondering once things get back to let's say normal conditions, what is the
underlying growth that you're expecting from the payments, which seems to be
accelerating due to the recent events that are pushing people to be more, I mean, using
cards and digital payments And also in light of the new measure into the, that will be
introduced by the government that you commented in the early statement, if you expect
the cash payback to represent an important trigger for volumes? And more in general on
the payments if you can just remind us your strategy also on the increase in penetration in
merchant segment? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think our ambition and what we have managed to do over the last three years has been
a double-digit growth in terms of EBIT.And As a matter of fact one of our, if I look at the
nine months with, 8.7 recorded. So that's our ambition. If I benchmark ourselves versus
our peers in payments space listed, unlisted, we're actually doing very well, okay ? We
follow growth, we follow margins growth. So we think the 10% is achievable at the
operating level. Yes, we believe that the cashback program, the ﬁght to cash from the
government that is just about to be launched and we participated since the beginning of
this program, supporting the government will get traction because there is a signiﬁcant
amount of money that the government has put behind this plan, money and commitment,
and third our strategy on the merchant side is to grow organically step-by-step having
such a strong base on the issuing side slowly clients understanding that signing, acquiring
contracts with Poste is lowering the fees that they pay on every payment. So, it's not going
to be a big growth, but certainly is one of those elements that will help bringing our
payment business on that double-digit growth path.

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Page 15 of 17



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

Okay. And I'm afraid, we're running out of time, but I would like to ask to submit two
questions. We have been asked by our customer link during the call. So the ﬁrst one was
from. Could you please update us on the status of the distribution contract with CDP? I
think that Matteo already mentioned about it. So Thanks for the question. And the last one
is from Salvatore Cirino from Pramerica on another platform as well. I would just ask if
possible, another view about your expectations for 2021 compared to 2019, EBIT realized
in each division. Given the dynamics you showed In Q3, parcel increase, cost savings et
etcetera. It looks like there is no reason apart from COVID lockdown, for not assuming
Poste in 2021 will be back to 2019 EBIT and net income, but consensus is much lower.
What's your view?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I mean, we don't comment on consensus, but it is exactly what we try to do since March.
We try to use the disruption that COVID brought to work on the revenue and the cost side
of our income statement to be stronger next year 2021. So with that assumption and with
that focus the answer has to be, yes.
And I thank really with this last question. I thank you all for the time. And obviously, as
usual, the CFO, Guido Nola, and myself are available. Thank you.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good evening.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you everyone.

Operator
Ladies and gentleman, thank you for joining. The conference is now over. You may
disconnect your telephone. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the

Page 16 of 17



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 17 of 17

