Q2 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Barbara Plucnar Jensen, Group Chief Financial Officer
Gianandrea Roberti, Investor Relations Officer
Morten Hubbe , Group Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Analyst
Asbjorn Mork
Derald Goh
Jakob Brink
Jonathan Denham
Jonny Urwin
Mads Thinggaard
Martin Birk
Per Gronborg

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood

Presentation
Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. This is Gianandrea Roberti. I'm Head of Investor Relations at Tryg. We
published our Q2 results earlier on this morning and I here have with me Morten Hubbe, Group
CEO; and Barbara Plucnar Jensen, Group CFO, to present the results. Over to you, Morten.

Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Thank you, Gian, and good morning to all of you. I think we start on Slide 3 with the financial
highlights, where we report a very robust Q2 with an overall pre-tax result higher than DKK1.5
billion. The technical result was DKK1.063 billion, driven by a combined ratio of 80.9%. While capital
markets performed also very strongly in Q2, following a very difficult Q1, and of course the
outbreak of COVID-19. In that sense you almost need to see Q1 and Q2 together as we saw
unusual investment market volatility in both quarters.
Back to the core business, the technical result in Q2 benefits from a robust top-line growth
particularly in the private and commercial SME segments, an improvement of the underlying claims
ratio for the group of 60 basis points and a continued delivery of the Alka synergies.
The investment income for the quarter was DKK541 million, boosted by a 12% return on equities
and almost 10% on corporate bonds. Solvency ratio of 193, helped by the new partial internal
model being approved and strong organic capital generation in the quarter.
Turning to Slide 4, on customer highlights. We are very satisfied with continued improvements in
the customer targets, as we see a strong link between customer loyalty and retention, which again
drives a low and efficient expense ratio. In this quarter, we are particularly pleased to see that we
have reached our CMD target of TNPS of 70, particularly in a period where COVID-19 has given a
high number of particularly travel claims, and that all of our claims staff has been working from



home, actually handling some 500,000 claims from their living room. That was a first and we're
happy that it worked out well.

FINAL

In general, retention rate developed satisfactorily, but we've seen Private Denmark as expected
that the discontinuation of the cooperation with Nordea gives a drop in the retention rate for the
Nordea customer portfolio, which I will get back to a little later.
The number of products per customer increased from 3.8 to 3.9, and we're approaching the fullyear target of 4.0. Also very positive to notice that the Danish non-customers knowledge of the
membership bonus continues to improve, we see in this quarter 29% against 25%. But we also
continue to see a further potential for higher knowledge amongst the non-customers.
On Slide 5, we will elaborate on the technical results. As mentioned previously, the group technical
result reached DKK1.063 billion for the quarter, an improvement of DKK84 million or some 8% also
helped by lower frequencies for certain lines of business in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Private lines had a slightly higher result than in Q2 last year, primarily driven by a higher premium
level as the combined ratio was slightly higher, primarily due to a lower run-off level than the year
before. The commercial business improved primarily because of an improved underlying
development as the net impact from weather, large claims and run-off was broadly at the same
level as the year before.
The corporate business saw a significant improvement in profitability, which primarily was due to
the profitability initiatives carried out particularly in Norway, but starting also in Denmark and
Sweden. And we also saw a net positive impact from weather, large claims and runoff. Very
positive to see these positive trends in corporate. Bear in mind that the process of improving
margin in corporate is by no means over or by no means stable yet, but it's very positive to see
the first early signals of strengthening profitability in corporate.
On Slide 6, we show a helicopter view of COVID-19. And then Barbara will dwell into that in more
detail. We've chosen to illustrate half-year impact from COVID-19 as we believe this makes the
most sense when looking at the full impact for the six months instead of the quarters in isolation.
For the year-to-date impact, we include the negative investment result, the total was minus
DKK422 million with a marginal positive impact for the insurance part of DKK17 million and a
significant loss from investments of DKK439 million.
We've seen that the number of claims has been much higher for travel insurance with an increase
of some 80% year-on-year, while we've seen a total six months period with a rather stable number
of motor claims. Bear in mind that we've had a 5% growth in number of customers from motor and
that actually this means a somewhat lower six months claims frequency for motor, which had a
positive impact of around DKK68 million. But of course, as Barbara will return to, the volatility
between the various weeks and months on motor has been unusually high.
On Slide 7, we are very pleased to continue to see that the synergies from the Alka acquisition
continues to be delivered according to plan, and in Q2 this year, DKK43 million was achieved in
synergies. We're very confident that we will achieve the promised total synergies plan related to
Alka and also very pleased to see a continued strong underlying development in the Alka business
both when it comes to sales, retention rates, growth and underlying claims.
On Slide 8, we elaborate on the strategic initiatives. I'm very pleased to see that all strategic
initiatives that are significant drivers to reach our technical result target of DKK3.3 billion shows
very good progress. We continue to harvest synergies from the gradually using and expanding
Tryg's procurement power, and of course using those agreements in the acquired Alka business



FINAL

with very strong results. We continue to have a strong focus on developing new products and
services and we've now reached DKK850 million, which is very satisfactory.
We believe that in the long run, working structurally with new products and services will strengthen
our relationship with the customer and increase the size and profitability of the market. In the
digital part of our strategic initiatives, we're in very good shape. All the targeted numbers for
digital -- number of digital transactions is actually above target. Nevertheless, it might still be
challenging to reach our 70% target in self-service. The reason behind that is that the customers
continue to in addition use the phone for contacting us. So the number of phone contacts is much
higher than anticipated, while at the same time we see a much higher number of digital contracts.
Actually, this is different than planned, but we think that is quite positive as higher traffic supports
higher customer loyalty and interaction with the customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 9, we elaborate on shareholder return. And as you probably recall, we published a stock
exchange announcement on March 27, explaining that we would move to full-year dividend
decision for this year, as opposed to usually quarterly, following the intense regulatory debate
after the extreme capital markets development in Q1. This does not at all change Tryg's aim to
deliver a normally stable and increasing dividend and it does not at all change Tryg's dividend
policy.
We've noted that regulators across Europe remain divided on this issue. As we see it, we are
reporting a very robust solvency position and assuming a normal Q3, it will be further improved
with a solvency ratio likely to be well above 200 after Q3. We will take the autumn to observe the
development in regulatory guidance on dividends, and of course, observe the development in
capital markets stability in the autumn. And then we've noticed that for instance, the Dutch
authorities have now opened for insurance companies paying dividends again.
On Slide 11, we elaborate on growth. The total group growth was 7%. We're very pleased to see
that the growth comes from the areas of private and commercial in all the countries. Clearly private
lines is the most profitable segment and therefore we are very satisfied to see continued strong
growth in private of 10% for the second quarter. The growth this quarter is a continuation of what
we've seen in the last quarters with a strong development in Denmark, strong cross selling and
sales through strong partnership agreements, among others, with FDM, and Danske Bank. But also
we see a strong development with our independent sales agents, also helping the number of
products per customer.
In Private Norway, we've seen a very strong sales performance, particularly in the car dealer
channel, as well as the cross sales to those car dealer customers. In commercial, we saw a growth
of 4.4%, which was a combination of organic growth in the SME segment, which is as we see it the
most attractive part of the commercial segment both in Denmark and in Norway. And in addition,
we saw price increases for particularly the larger commercial customers in Norway, contributing to
the total growth.
Corporate on the other hand showed a zero growth on the Nordic level, which was impacted by
price hikes in Norway, which reduced the size of the Norwegian corporate portfolio, while the price
hikes in the Danish corporate portfolio was positively impacted by a high acceptance of the price
increases and the price increases have been around 10%. Sweden showed a relatively high growth
of 7.4%, primarily driven by price increases in motor to improve profitability in motor Sweden.
On Slide 12, we elaborate on the price development. And structurally adjusting prices in
accordance with claims inflation is extremely important and it is a key focus area for us to closely
monitor all developments in average prices, and the development in claims frequency and
average claims as well. Of course, profitability improvement is always a combination of claims
initiatives and price adjustments and of course here we only show one of the two legs.



FINAL

The average price development is also -- in this quarter impacted by particularly in the Norwegian
business, a change in one large partner agreement. If you look at the average price development
of Norwegian house insurance, you see a drop in the graph, which can be ascribed solely to a
reduction in price of more than 10% of one single particularly large partner agreement in Private
Norway.
If we turn to Slide 13, we elaborate on the customer retention rates. And of course, retention rates
are extremely important because customer focus is extremely important. And actually customer
satisfaction and the health of that development is well monitored through the retention rate. We're
pleased to see stable and improved retention rates this quarter. But bear in mind that for Private
Denmark as expected, we see a slight drop in the retention rate as a consequence of the drop in
the portfolio of Nordea. Remember that we discontinued the co-operation with Nordea and
replaced it with a new co-operation with Danske Bank.
On a net basis, we're very satisfied to see that the net impact of reduced Nordea customers and
increased Danske Bank customers is very positive based on very strong sales to Danske Bank
customers. But bear in mind that the Danske Bank customer sales is not included in the retention
rates, whereas the drop in Nordea customers is included in the retention rate. Without this impact,
we also saw an increase in private lines Denmark retention rate. In Norway, we're very pleased to
see that even in the period of price changes and adjustments we actually see the highest
retention level in 10 years.

Bloomberg Transcript

And over to you, Barbara.

Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Morten, and good morning to you all. On Slide 15, we'll go through the
development in our underlying claims ratio, where for the group the ratio improved by 60 bps and
for the private by 20 bps in the quarter compared to the same quarter last year. Please note that
the numbers do not include the impact from the COVID-19 claims. Price adjustments and the claims
excellence program including claims synergies related to Alka are the main drivers behind the
improvement, but also a rebalancing of the portfolio towards more private business supports the
overall improvement for the group.
The high growth in private business has as expected a modest negative impact on the underlying
claims ratio as new customers in general have a frequency which is approximately 3%, higher than
the portfolio in general. We are very satisfied that especially the initiatives in Corporate Norway
supports the improved underlying claims ratio development for the group which was of 0.6%
compared to the 0.5% in previous quarters.
On Slide 16, I'll go through some more details on the impact of COVID-19 as Morten promised
earlier. As a starting point, I want to highlight that in the Nordics we experienced a full lockdown in
the middle of March, however already by the end of April, we embarked on a gradual reopening of
activities, which of course has impacted economic activity. At the lowest point in April as an
example, there were 40% less cars on the roads in the Nordic countries.
As you can see on the table on this page, the gross insurance impact related to our customers for
the first half year of 2020 was negative with DKK85 million. The majority of the negative impact
relates to our travel insurance. However, as you can see here, the lower frequency for specialty
motor, property and accident has had a positive impact which to some extent has mitigated the
loss on travel insurance. After reinsurance protection of DKK140 million, the technical result before
expenses was DKK55 million. And after subtracting the COVID-19 related expenses of DKK38
million, as an example here, I'll mention extra cleaning, IT cost, et cetera, we end with a positive
impact of DKK17 million.



FINAL

And finally, as you know COVID-19 impacted the capital markets significantly in the first quarter
leading to a very negative investment result for us. This has to some extent been recovered now
in the second quarter leading to a total loss at the half year of DKK439 million. All in all, the total
negative impact taking into account both the insurance as well as the investment activities on our
assets and our liabilities for Tryg ends up at DKK422 million for the first half year of 2020.
On Slide 17, you can see in the top left corner that Q2 has had a somewhat lower level of large
claims compared to the same quarter last year, while weather claims were more or less at the
same level. The discounting impact in the second quarter of 2020 was much lower than in the
same period last year, due to the lower interest rate level in general. Here, it's important to
remember that as a rule of thumb, we say that our sensitivity to 100 basis points movement in the
discounting rate has an impact of approximately 1% on our combined ratio.
Finally, in Q2 of this year, the run-off result was slightly lower with 3.6% of the combined ratio
compared to 5.3% in the second quarter of 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, please turn to Slide 18. The expense ratio for the second quarter was 14.3% hence in line with
Q2 '19 and the target for 2020 of around 14%. As mentioned earlier in today's call, our expenses
were impacted by COVID-19 costs of DKK18 million in the quarter. We continue to see that more
efficient distribution to a large degree continue to finance our IT investments. Looking at our
organization, the number is stable compared to the first quarter 2020, but compared to last year,
we have seen a slight increase in the number of employees, which has been driven amongst other
things by the higher volume in our business.
Please turn to Slide 20 for insights on our investments. On this slide, you can see the usual details
of our investments. There's not much news in this slide, but we think it's important that you
understand the split of our DKK40 billion investments between the match and the free portfolio
respectively.
When turning to Slide 21, we have a little bit more detail in terms of the movements in the quarter.
2020 has indeed been a volatile year following the outbreak of COVID-19 and Q2 has offered a
strong rebound compared to the first quarter of the year. Our investment income in the second
quarter was highly positive. DKK541 million primarily driven by a strong performance of our free
portfolio generating a positive return of DKK519 million.
More or less, all asset classes performed positively. And as Morten also mentioned earlier, equities
were up by 12% and corporate bonds almost up 10% in the quarter, partly reversing the highly
negative trend that we saw in the first quarter. The match portfolio was also helped by narrowing
Nordic covered bond spreads. And in this quarter other financial income and expenses was
somewhat worse than normal, which was primarily driven by higher costs for the currency hedges
given the extreme movements we have experienced. However, our expectation for this line
remains to be slightly more than around DKK60 million per quarter.
On Slide 22, you can see that our solvency ratio was 193 at the end of the second quarter,
supported by a strong organic capital generation and a lower SCR. The lower SCR is a function of
the new partial internal model partly offset by a higher capital charge for equities, higher exposure
and higher actual capital charge and also a rebounding of the Norwegian and Swedish kroner,
which imply higher claims reserves on the balance sheet and therefore a higher charge for the
insurance business.
Own funds primarily benefited from the strong Q2 results and by the fact that no quarterly
dividend was paid following the decision disclosed on March 27 to move to a full-year dividend
decision for 2020. In general, Tryg's solvency ratio continues to mainly be a function of our profits
and dividends.



FINAL

Please turn to Slide 23. On this slide, we deep dive a bit on our debt position and capacity.
Currently, we have a capacity of slightly more than DKK300 million for Tier 1 instruments, where
the Tier 1 instruments as a maximum can account for 25% of the Core Equity Tier 1. The decision to
postpone any dividend announcement at the year-end means that the Core Equity Tier 1 should
increase every quarter and therefore create more space for Tier 1 instruments. However, assuming
a normal dividend pattern there is no space for further issuance. When it comes to Tier 2, Tryg has
actually a spillover of DKK192 million, as these cannot be counted in at the moment since they
exceed the 50% SCR threshold.
On Slide 24, we want to show you the long-term development of the solvency ratio, which is at a
very stable level. The bigger changes in the last four years have been the acquisition of Alka and
the approval of the new partial internal model here in the second quarter of 20. As mentioned
previously, leaving these items aside, the profits and dividends are the key drivers of the solvency
ratio.
Finally, please go to Slide 25. As usual we provide you details on solvency ratio sensitivities. The
biggest sensitivity continues to be the spread risk, which obviously stems from the fact that the
vast majority of our fixed income instruments are Nordic covered bonds.
With this, I would like to hand over to Morten for our targets and outlook.

Bloomberg Transcript

Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Thank you, Barbara. And rounding off, we firmly repeat on Slide 26, our financial targets for 2020,
and of course particularly important our DKK3.3 billion technical result target for the year. After
delivering a first half year technical result of DKK1.7 billion, we are well positioned to reach the fullyear target. And of course as you remember from the first quarter, the ROE target for 2020 was
abandoned at the end of March following the extreme capital markets development of the first
quarter.
And then we finish with our favorite quote from John D. Rockefeller on dividends on Slide 27.
And with that, we will turn to your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Asbjorn Mork from Danske Bank.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Asbjorn Mork

{BIO 17028219 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I have a couple of questions. One relating to
your private business, the 10% growth that you report and then the 20 basis points improvement
to the underlying claims ratio, you say that we should expect less improvement going forward for
the private due to this growth.
I was just wondering if 20 basis points is sort of the run rate that you expect from here or whether
there is a specific impact from the partnership renegotiation that you mentioned for Norway. And
then as a follow up to the private growth, the Nordea Topdanmark distribution, have you seen any
changes during Q2 after the reopening of the economy? Has churn sort of accelerated in June
versus the first two months?



A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, good morning to you, Asbjorn. I think the announcement that we would see a continued
underlying improvement of the claims ratio, but the roles would change a bit in the sense that
private lines which has been dragging almost the entire weight for quite a long period of time
would be pulling a little bit less weight. Then we would see the commercial and corporate business
starting to add to the party and carry their weight. I think it's extremely important in longer term
that we start to see that and we're quite pleased with that.
I think with respect to the run rate and the 20 basis points, I don't think we give precise guidance
for underlying development, but we do expect to continue to see a slight underlying improvement
in the private lines. So I don't think you are far off.
I think when it comes to Nordea and Danske, we need to bear in mind that there was a short
period where we actually had a cooperation with both Nordea and Danske. And of course that
model would have been nice to have into perpetuity, but probably not very possible. And now we
see a period where we see the loss of Nordea and the addition of Danske.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think during these first six months, there's really nothing changed and there's really nothing
changed in May or June as per your question after the reopening. And when we see the net
impact, the number of new customers from Danske is clearly higher than the number of customers
lost from the Nordea portfolio.
And I believe that is actually the most important question that, that is what drives both volumes
and earnings longer term. And then of course, we try to show how the one leg -- one of the two
legs, the retention rate is impacted from the Nordea portfolio. So hopefully that is fairly
transparent.

Q - Asbjorn Mork

{BIO 17028219 <GO>}

All right. Thanks. Then a question on your slide 16, the COVID-19 impacts. If you look at the Q2
versus Q1, motor is basically flat, the benefit you get. Property is actually down a bit. I guess, when
we look at the societal shutdown in Q2, it lasted somewhat longer than the three weeks it had in
Q1. So I guess I would have expected a bigger impact in Q2. Can you sort of elaborate a bit on how
has the development been throughout the quarter? Is there anything we should be aware of in -after the reopening of the societies that have had a negative impact here?

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

I think as a starting point Asbjorn, in March, it was a full lockdown and you saw very a limited activity
at that point in time. But then you have seen in Denmark for instance since 22nd of April, we
started to reopen. In Norway, that was the 27th of April. So more or less throughout the majority of
the quarter you have seen a good rebound of activity. The week in April where we had the lowest
number of cars on the roads, it was as mentioned earlier down 40% compared to a normal week.
So we have seen -- you can say, some of that impact. What you should bear in mind is also that
there has been a catch-up, you can say on motor claims that we didn't get through where there
was the lockdown, but when economies have reopened, there has been a number of claims that
have come in to catch-up so to speak for the time where everything was more or less shutdown.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

And it means for instance, Asbjorn, if we compare June month to June of last year, actually the
number of motor claims is up 16%. Now, we know that we have 5% more customers and we know
that there's some catch-up, but what we also see is that there seems to be a reluctance for
people to use public transportation, because it seems that they're worried about the proximity to
other people.



FINAL

So there seems to be a tendency that people actually do not take public transportation and less
than before and actually take private transportation more than before. And that it's also likely
we're seeing some tendency of that already at the end of June that when more people stay in the
Nordics, more people use their car driving around during their vacation. And actually that pushes up
the number of car claims in June and probably in July, but we'll see after, as you said Barbara, an
extremely low point in April.
So we need to monitor that carefully, and clearly, there's more volatility between the months and
quarters on motor than usual. But I think comparing Nordics to the rest of the world we're getting
closer to normal activity level and faster than most other countries.

Q - Asbjorn Mork

{BIO 17028219 <GO>}

So if I hear you correctly, you're basically saying that, if we look at July, August over the summer,
the benefit you'll have from travel might actually be offset by rising motor claims?

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

I guess it's predicting people's travel patterns in the world of COVID-19 is extremely difficult, but I
think it's fair to assume that some of the people who'd usually be traveling abroad will stay at
home, and as a result of that their car will drive more than usual in the summer vacation. I think that
is a reasonable assumption.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah.

Q - Asbjorn Mork

{BIO 17028219 <GO>}

All right. And I guess we'll have to see how it actually goes, but thanks. On the Alka synergies,
you've delivered DKK175 million now, the run rate is 43. Should we still expect roughly DKK300
million or should we take the current run rate plus the initial DKK150 million for 2021, so your total
synergies is going to be closer to DKK400 million? I mean, I guess my question is are you ahead of
the plan, but the plan -- the total potential is still the same or is the potential bigger now?

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

We've not changed our view of the total potential, but of course, we're pleased that we are
slightly ahead of the plan on the synergies. And of course, equally important when we monitor the
Alka business as such prior to synergies, particularly pleased to see that that business is doing
really well. So I think that's a positive experience, but we've not changed the outlook for the total
synergies.

Q - Asbjorn Mork

{BIO 17028219 <GO>}

All right. Then on Sweden, there is improvement also on the underlying for Q2. I mean, it's not a
great business, but it's improving. How are you -- I mean, with the initiatives that you're doing right
now, how are you seeing sort of the mid-term outlook for Sweden?

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

I think on Sweden what we have been really focused on is to work on the areas that you can say
we have mentioned like motor, is an area where we have been quite mindful around the pricing
and so forth. We are continuously looking at what is the development in the business in Sweden
and are taking the appropriate actions in the areas that we see as being relevant. So you should
continue that or expect that to continue also in the quarters to come.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}



Yeah, because it is really a journey that is not final yet. I think, we are into the process of enhancing
prices for instance, in motor Sweden in private and then of course also on some of the corporate
lines, but we're not at the end of that process.

Q - Asbjorn Mork

{BIO 17028219 <GO>}

FINAL

All right. Thanks. That's all from my side. Thanks a lot.

Operator
And our next question is from Jon Denham from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

Q - Jonathan Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Firstly, Morten you mentioned, the Dutch regulator
and dividends and your own strong solvency ratio, would you seek to declare the first three
quarterly dividends of 2020 at 3Q, if you're allowed? And maybe if you had any conversations with
your local regulator about that topic. And then just secondly, are you doing anything to combat
higher parts [ph] costs in Norway due to FX? So are you putting through additional rates or peers
who are taking any claims actions? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Well, I think -- good morning to you as well, Jon. On the first question, I think it's overall structurally
positive that some regulators are starting to see that insurance companies are not banks. And
insurance companies have more stable business models and more stable capital generation than
banks. And that should influence the decision on the attitude towards insurance companies'
dividends.
And I think we're pleased to see that the Dutch authorities are voicing that argument. I think that is
one regulator out of many regulators. And I think it's still too early days to see what is the
consequence of that. I don't think that we should expect or plan that in a particular quarter, we can
jump to a dividend decision. I think we need to see what happens around us during the autumn.
We've said, we will move to an annual dividend decision. We're very pleased with our solvency
rate. We know that it will grow further during the autumn and we're very pleased with our results.
And we'd like to pay our dividends. But when it comes to the view of the regulator and when it
comes to timing, it is still not possible for us to give you a clear guidance on that. So I think we'll
have to see how the world develops during the autumn and how the regulator's view develops.
But I think we are in a very positive and strong position and at the end of the day that is the most
important.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

Question on the claims inflation in the -- in Norway and Sweden and whether we take extra
measures. I think dealing with claims inflation is part of the business model that we run. So you can
say, obviously, we are more impacted at a time like this. But it is something that the business is
following quite carefully in the way that they deal with -- you can say both the supply chain, but also
when looking at adjustments to our prices to take into account expected price inflation going
forward. So yes, it has been a little bit more than we have seen for a while in terms of volatility in
the first half year. But as said, it's something we are used to dealing with in terms of our ordinary
business.

Q - Jonathan Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Morten. Thanks, Barbara.



Operator
And our next question is from Jakob Brink from Nordea. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 20303720 <GO>}

Thank you, and good morning to all of you. Just coming back to COVID-19 please. Could you just
remind us what is the short-term impact of all this opening and closing of different countries and
travel insurance, et cetera and also your reinsurance status?

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Well, I guess -- and good morning to you as well, Jakob. If the authorities had stuck to the first
signal of keeping for instance Denmark closed for the entire summer holidays, then any travel
claims during that period would have been covered as the same first reinsurance event as we saw
from March and onwards for COVID-19. So no new net payment for us, but a full reinsurance cover.
Given that a number of countries have now been reopened, then our own travel claim will pay. If
we see a new outbreak or a high number of travel claims, then we would step into a second
period of reinsurance, where we would have a new claim size to cover on our own before the
reinsurance kicks in in round two. But typically, you would narrow down which is the 14 days period
with the largest number of travel claims and then use the reinsurance for that. But we would have
moved to an event number two after the reopening, so hopefully that's fairly clear.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 20303720 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. And on the longer term impacts of COVID-19, I know this is very premature, but it
could be interesting to hear your thoughts. You're mentioning that -- I think you mentioned that
there has been more motor accidents now in June, maybe because people don't want to travel in
public transportation or whatever, maybe also people stay at home from or driving more in the
vacation but what do you think is more the sort of longer lasting impacts? We've also heard about
more companies allowing people to work from home, et cetera, et cetera, it would be interesting
to hear your thoughts.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Yes. Well -- yes.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

Yes. I think as you say, Jakob, it will impact. You can say, our ways of working, I'm sure about that. It
will also impact the travel patterns. It's difficult to see sort of what is the medium-term impact and
what will be the long-term sustainable impact and I think that's something that we get more clarity
on. Yes, probably only in the next 12, 18 months.
Because right now, if you look at the global economies, there is a huge difference in terms of
where the individual countries are in the cycle dealing with COVID-19. So that also means that with
now borders opening and people being able to travel more, what will be the impact of that, will we
see that the infection rate starts to increase, so we need to see further lockdowns where we see
that that people will then take into account a significantly less travel and so forth. I think there's a
lot of question marks still in terms of how this will have a more longer term impact.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

I think if we use Tryg's own employees as a proxy, they are telling us that they would like to spend
at least two days a week working from home. Now of course, if that's the case, then the usual
commuting traffic in cars longer term should be lower. How much more private driving does that
then mean? Well, somewhat higher, but net-net perhaps a reduction.



FINAL

But it is a little bit tricky to see through how much of that view of working from home is influenced
by the recent experience, and what will be the actual permanent carrying out of that. I think there's
a good likelihood that we will indeed see a longer term, higher tendency of working from home,
which will impact our transport patterns. I think we'll also see some less business flights for
meetings, et cetera, but it's difficult to fully judge what is -- we can see the opinion today, but how
long is the memory and have we all forgotten about that two years from now. That is really tricky to
figure out.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

I think some of the things that are sort of being investigated right now is the understanding of new
risks occurring. So I think it's become quite evident also in the lockdown and in the period we've
just gone through, how important IT security is, as an example. When you need to do more work
from home, if you want to be more, you can say, decentralized that put some requirements in
terms of your IT infrastructure and so forth. So I think what you also see develop is some new risks
arising where people obviously would look at insurance coverage to hedge some of those new
risks coming in.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 20303720 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thank you. And then on the private side, could you say anything more about this 10% price
reduction in Norway? And why did this happen? Or just the negotiations around this could be
interesting to learn more about?

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Yes. We can do that. I think what we see is that typically for an average private customer price
changes are gradual and they happen all the time. Whereas for some of the larger partnership
agreements, you have a less frequent period of looking at the profitability and looking at the
margins, and most often there's a risk sharing between the partner and us and the profitability
sharing. And that gives a little bit larger waves up or down and it goes both ways with some of
these larger partnership agreements because we need to agree on them.
So for us there's really no surprise in this, we could see from some of the profitability numbers that
this would be the result. And then the impact hits a little bit oddly in terms of hitting a particular
point in time because it has been negotiated and agreed with the partner.
And of course, the variation of margins and combined ratios between the various partner
agreements and the various products are quite significant. And most often that gives some
increases, some reductions and then it doesn't really impact the total. But when there's a product
like house which is large, and a reduction of 10% with a very large partner, then you see it in the
numbers and then we'd rather explain to you that, that is where the impact comes from and not a
changed pricing pattern for all of our other private house customers in Norway.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 20303720 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. I guess just following up then on the private underlying combined claims ratio was 20
basis points improvement year-on-year. We talked about it a bit earlier in this call, but you say that
probably a run rate of this level could be expected. But would you be willing to even see a
deterioration year-on-year in order to get growth? And secondly, I don't think you answered on this
before, but how does this 10% decline of the house price in this partnership agreement in Norway
impact the underlying claims ratio going forward? Is that already in the numbers now or will that
have an additional negative impact in H2?



FINAL

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

I think on your first question, would we attempt to accept deterioration of underlying claims ratios
in private lines to reach a higher growth? I don't think that would be meaningful and that would
never be our target. The way we see it, we should always make sure that we focus on the
customer experience, the customer retention rate and the customer development, growing the
market with more innovation and new products, while at the same time, accepting that new
customers always have a structurally slightly higher combined ratio for the first couple of years,
both because of the higher distribution costs, but also the slightly higher claims frequency for the
first couple of years.
So that is structurally an unavoidable. But we should always make sure that we continue to improve
the underlying while improving the customer relationship at the same time, because both are
drivers of strong continued improvement to margins. So I don't see any signal or reason why we
should leave that. But of course, there's a good and strong logic in making sure that we don't need
to see private lines pulling all of the weight of the improvement of the entire group, but rather
spread to that to ensure that we include commercial and corporate in the improvement.
And as of now, there's clearly a stronger need of improvement in commercial and particularly highend commercial and corporate and that is why we are working very hard to make sure that they
pull more of the weight. As I think, we've explained all along and now we start to see it in the
numbers and I think that's a more healthy way of equalizing how the various business segments
add to the value creation and not just having private lines pulling all of the weight.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 20303720 <GO>}

Makes sense. Very final question from my side. On fraud detection, I think you mentioned DKK20
million in the first half year which would be some 20 basis points on the combined ratio. I can't
remember what exactly you guided for in the Capital Market Day proportionate around 1
percentage point improvement over the strategic period. So also you have highlighted before that
Alka was significantly more effective in finding fraudulent claims. So could you give us an update on
this -- on where you stand on improving that side? Thank you.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

Yes. I think what we have been telling all along is Alka were quite progressed in terms of how they
work with their fraud identification. They had a very strong data based set-up that that sort of could
ensure that they had some strong results. That is something that we are rolling out to the wider
Tryg. But as this comes back to also IT technology and real-time data in order to make the
maximum value out of the methodology that Alka has been using, that is something that we're in
the progress of implementing, but we are not where we want to be for the full group. But it's
positive to see that both the methodology and the approach that we use around identifying fraud
is something that we can start to see spilling over to the wider Tryg business as well.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

And I guess, Jakob, you made the reference back to the Capital Markets Day, I think we were
extremely pleased to have the competencies within the group now from Alka on fraud, because at
the Capital Markets Day, we were in the process of implementing an external fraud system that
had nothing to do with Alka. And our anticipation was that that would drive a lot of the fraud work.
And the reality was we never got that external system to work in a Tryg contract and we had to
abandon that project completely.
And then we've got new competencies on board from Alka, but as Barbara said, we're still quite
far from having the Tryg data set equivalent to the Alka data set. I think the Alka fraud model looks
at 121 parameters, we're nowhere near that in the Danish or in the Tryg business. Alka runs on realtime data. The Tryg data runs in batch overnight. So there's a number of structural differences, but
we're pleased that we have strong progress as a result of Alka, but clearly, the journey is a lot
different than what we thought at the Capital Markets Day in '17.



Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 20303720 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

FINAL

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Per Gronborg from SEB. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Good morning. A couple of questions from my side. First of all, we had an event in
your share price some weeks back seemed to be related to the Ombudsman's case. Can you give
us some perception of where you are seeing that case that is won by the Danish Ombudsman at
the moment? In that context, can you give us any data on how large a share of your private
business is Danish? And if possible also how bigger share of the Danish business is Affinity
agreements where I assume you haven't applied the same systematic prices as you have to the
other part of the portfolio?

Bloomberg Transcript

My second question is returning to the Norwegian price change, you addressed a bit there on the
client, my question is more generic, is this a risk that is facing a significant number of your Affinity
agreements that they have become too profitable and now the counterparty demands prices to
be lower? It was a bit positive that you said there was a profit sharing agreement on those ones? I
assume the premium you're addressing is after rebates that is the premiums you address
everywhere in your report. So just can you clarify where that fits in? That was my two questions.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Good morning to you as well, Per. Yes, when it comes to your first question, the way we see it,
there is no case. There is a set of legal guidelines and rules for price changes. And we have of
course abided by all of those rules and all of those regulations. So as far as we can see there is no
case and as far as we know the Ombudsman hasn't started the case, so for us, that is the short
version of that story.
When it comes to the size of the price changes carried out, it's quite important to say that it is only
Denmark, it is only private lines. Within private lines, there is typically a risk sharing or profit sharing
mechanism, depending on the nature of the partner agreements. So typically the partner
agreements would follow another pricing structure and would not be included in this debate.
Secondly, every year a large number of customers would change their car, they would change their
house, they would change their apartments, they would change some of their children's insurance
policies or other changes as a result of the many, many product adjustments and additions we've
done.
And if they have changed product during the process, they're not relevant for the calculation of
pricing impact. And as you can hear, all of that means that you would carve a very large proportion
of the total portfolio away if you were to try to calculate what has been the net impact of those
price changes. So the number -- we've not published the number, but the number is actually fairly
small.
I don't think, we've ever published a precise number on the share of Affinity agreements. And I
think Affinity agreements are many different things, some of it is bank corporation, some of it is the
civil servants insurances that we have worked with for 80 years, some of it is small more cash flow
affinity agreement. So there's a whole broad variation. But I think it's fair to say that both in
Denmark and Norway, there is a large proportion of our business which is Affinity agreement and a
lot of that is very old and very large agreements.



FINAL

So it is a very sizable number of policies that you would need to subtract to try to calculate the net
relevance of the price changes. I don't think you can do that math to be honest. But I think the
number relevant of price changes and the consequence is actually quite small. And then I would
revert to the starting statement which is that as we see it, there really is no case, because we have
done everything according to the current rules.

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. And the second question?

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

That's related to -- you can say the price change, you can say on the Norwegian agreement. I think,
as Morten already said, there is a number of agreements that we have in place. There's a number
of agreements that we have had in place for a very long time. So again these needs to be
renewed from time to time and it's down to individual negotiations, where in this particular case,
we have seen somewhat of an impact, but it is not something that you should expect to see a
significantly more of going forward. Again, it's coming back to the fact that we deal with the
partnership agreements on an ongoing basis, so that they work for both parties, so to speak.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And I guess, your question Per on, is it a profit sharing? Is it a risk sharing or when -- why do you
then have bigger adjustments? I think the reality is that we would like all partnership agreements to
follow the same contractual structure and have the same rules on risk sharing and price
adjustments and whatnot. The reality is that, that is not the case at all.
There's a huge variation on the structure of the way a partnership agreement is actually structured.
In some cases, there's a lot of risk sharing or profit sharing, in some cases there's zero profit
sharing or risk sharing, in some cases there is sharing of costs and in some cases not. In some
cases we change prices very frequently, in some cases we just change them very seldomly. So I
guess the gist of your question was, is this a signal that we will see a lot more of these in Norway?
And the answer is no. There's no sort of structural element and they're not structured in the same
way.

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
And our next question is from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi, guys. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Just two please. So I think it sounds like
Tryg has changed some of the pricing practices from the start of this year. So there's potentially
less dynamic re pricing below this 5% increase threshold. I just wondered, will that impact the
underlying developments in private going forward? That's the first question. And then secondly,
runoff was a bit lower in the second quarter, so I wondered what's going on there. Are you just
building more prudence into reserves, because you expect frequency and severity to rise? Thank
you.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Good morning to you as well, Jonny. I think on your first question, I'm glad you asked the question
because that's actually very important. It's quite important to state that our view of price changes
has not changed at all. The way we see it is extremely important that we monitor claims inflation,
we try to be ahead of the curve, we try to make sure that we have both index and price changes in



FINAL

addition to index to make sure that we offset claims inflation. So the discussion on pricing in my
view has nothing to do with the volume of price changes. We will do exactly the same volume of
price changes as we've done previously, because our view on the role the price changes play is
unchanged.
The only debate is how do you communicate these price changes? Do you communicate
everything in the same way or do you distinguish between significant and un significant or
insignificant price changes as the current regulation does? That is the only debate. It is not a
debate about the size of the price changes we do, because that will be unchanged. Hopefully
that's fairly clear.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

You had a question on the reserves, whether that is a step change? Or did I get it wrong?

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Yes, I just wondered why it was a bit lower in the quarter. I mean, I guess, you probably want to
build a bit of prudence just given if you're uncertain on the frequency impacts over the summer
and potentially severity?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

Yeah. I think you're -- are you talking about the run-offs or the reserves?

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Well, both, lower run-off, higher reserves?

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

Yes. I would say that if you look at our run-offs, they are a little bit volatile and obviously we have a
look at current situations from quarter to quarter. And we are always trying to manage you can say,
what is the expected development in our business. So I would say, yes, it's somewhat lower than
the 5.3% that we saw in the comparable quarter last year. But if you look at recent quarters, they
have been moving between more or less 3.5% and 7%, so it's not extraordinary that you would
see a variation from quarter to quarter.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

And I guess when we look at it through the front window or windscreen of the car, in our view, our
outlook on future run-offs is unchanged. We don't see any sort of change signal or trend in that.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
And our next question is from Mads Thinggaard from ABG. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Mads Thinggaard

{BIO 15369662 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. I only have two questions left here at this point. And the first one, I mean, it's on
the renegotiations you did in Norway that we had a lot of questions on. I mean, I've been speaking
to some, I mean, of the other Nordic insurance and they -- I mean some of them are seeing less



partnership agreements being less attractive than they used to be. I don't know if you see a
change here and if there is some kind of I mean strategic inflection of this seen from your point of
view, if you could address this? And then also just a small one on the Norwegian flooding risk that
didn't materialize in Q2, is there an overhang on Q3 with flooding risk? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Thank you for two good questions and I think I'll take the first one. I think, it's a very relevant
question because you should always be very aware of what is the value and the quality of a
partnership agreement. You easily run into the risk that a partnership agreement is just the same
product, the same starting point price, the same distribution cost, the same penetration, in theory,
the same margin, but then you add a discount and then it's actually a worse proposition than not to
have the partnership agreement. And you easily run the risk of having that to be the conclusion.
So lots of partnership agreements are actually not attractive if you enter into them. So the way we
see it, we need to see a logic where the distribution cost is lower, the penetration is higher, the
loyalty or retention rate is higher or there is an opportunity to product innovate between us and
the partner because the partner has a particular homogeneous group of members whom we can
then jointly innovate product towards and through that add the number or increase the number of
products per partnership customer and through that create more value.

Bloomberg Transcript

But you need some of those comparative advantage elements to play a key role, otherwise a
partnership agreement really doesn't make sense. And those are clearly our strong focus areas
when we enter into a partnership agreement and otherwise, we would not do it.

Q - Mads Thinggaard

{BIO 15369662 <GO>}

Okay. Has it become less easy to do an attractive deal than it used to be or is it quite the same
kind of effort and work?

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

No, I think it actually the nature of the work has changed quite dramatically, because I think typically
today, entering into a new partnership agreement means entering into a large number of product
changes, concept changes, a large number of digital changes, online solutions, et cetera, et
cetera. So typically the IT and innovation associated with the partnership agreement is by far the
driving force of a new partnership agreement today which also means that there's typically a very
large upfront investment.
So you need to -- we need to believe that a partnership agreement will be successful, because
otherwise, it's not worth the upfront IT investment. And typically we design all of those IT and
online solutions from the Nordics and then we have people often in India actually coding and
carrying out a lot of that. But clearly that was not the case just five years ago. So the nature of the
work has changed a lot.

Q - Mads Thinggaard

{BIO 15369662 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

And on the Norwegian flooding, obviously, some of that relates to the snow melting and how it
then impact, is it a fast melt or is it a slow melt, et cetera, et cetera. And I think what was expected
was that we would see quite a bit of impact in the second quarter. I don't foresee that we see a
spillover to Q3, but it has just been gradual, hence, less of a sort of immediate impact with the
melting in the second quarter of the year. So I wouldn't see that going into Q3.

Q - Mads Thinggaard

{BIO 15369662 <GO>}



Okay. Thanks for that.

Operator

FINAL

And our next question is from Martin Gregers Birk from Carnegie Investment Bank. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Martin Birk

{BIO 19920552 <GO>}

Thank you so much. Couple of questions from my side. The first one on you, Morten, alluding to
commercial and corporate needs to carry their own weight going forward, how many years of
successive price increases would you expect that to take before we reach in your view a
satisfactory level? That's my first question.
The second question goes to maybe digging a little bit more into Q3 and staycation effects where
you also alluded to an impact of -- on motor in particular, what is that going to mean for other
insurance lines? Are we still expecting Q3 to be a net positive from COVID-19 or is it going to be
net negative? Those are my two first questions.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for that. I think on the first question on commercial and corporate, I think first of all, it's
quite important to say that commercial is actually a combination of an SME segment which is very
profitable and then a higher-end commercial segment which is not profitable or a lot less
profitable and which looks a lot more like the corporate segment.
I think there is a fairly big variation in the maturity of the price changes we're doing in corporate in
the way that corporate Norway is now in year three of price increases. And we're seeing a
significant improvement in profitability in corporate Norway in this year three. But we will need at
least a year four, maybe more. But we are now seeing the improvements carrying through
whereas corporate Denmark and corporate Sweden is really closer to being year one.
So if we take of course the starting point challenge is smaller than in Norway. So if corporate
Norway needs somewhere between four and five years to fully get to where we want to be, then
hopefully Denmark and Sweden corporate needs less. But I think the Norwegian journey tells us
that it actually does take a while. And I'm quite pleased that Norway corporate is ahead of the
other two countries, because we want to see the earnings starting to improve and we are actually
seeing that. So I think that's positive.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

On your staycation point, I love the expression. I think, as we've alluded to before obviously,
isolated looking at people's travel patterns, where they will have their vacations this summer and
how that will impact, in particular, the motor is one thing. But I think you need to take it into the
bigger picture. So what do we see -- do we foresee that there will be a wave two that will
obviously impact that, you can say, we lockdown again with whatever consequences that has.
So I think it's -- as we've mentioned before, it's slightly early days to have a firm view on that. But
isolated looking at more people staying in the Nordics, more people on the roads, it will have an
impact, we foresee on the motor part of our business.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

And I guess, you could speculate on accident as well. But because I think the more leisure time you
have and the more you do various leisure activities, there is a likelihood that that you will have
some accident claims as a result of that. So it is a little bit tricky to see the entire pattern and I think
still a lot of families are not really sure whether they drive to France or Italy or they stay at home.



But it still looks like a lot of people staying at home and that will have some impact on both motor
and accident and other products. I don't think that the net-net of that is a deterioration, but it just
means that a -- it's probably not sensible just to expect a strong net-net reduction in claims,
because that is not supported by the current activity level.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Okay, okay. And then a final question on COVID-19. COVID-19 related expenses, are they expected
to disappear completely by Q3?

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

If you look at this quarter, we had DKK18 million of expenses and you can say a proportion of that
was related to ensuring that our IT and our telephone setup was appropriate and to deal with the
fact that all of our staff was working from home. So you can say that is more or less a one-off that
we had to incur.
But there are other areas like, right now, we have a changed pattern in our canteen in terms of the
meals so there are, you can say, of course, I would say sustainable impact on things like our
cleaning activities, but the counter side is also then looking at what will be the need of space and
so forth going forward. So you have a bit of positives and negatives on that, that we just need to
deal with. I don't foresee that you would see a sudden, you can see spike of further costs at all.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, okay. Thank you. That was all I had.

Operator
And our next question is from Derald Goh from Citigroup. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Derald Goh

{BIO 20775137 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Just a few questions from my side, please. I'll ask them one at a time. So
if I just start off with COVID-19 and I'm just thinking about kind of the potential adverse impacts that
might come so this is just kind of going back to the comment that you still have in your report
today that you might see some adverse development in business interruption and also in credit
and surety.
So just on business interruption, I know, you've previously said that you don't write pandemic
coverage and your standard wordings are tight, but what are the key uncertainties there and how
might this play out? Has there been any kind of change in sentiment given what's going on in the
UK?

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

I think it's quite important to state that in a number of countries around the world, you would
actually cover business interruption as a result of pandemics. And as you rightfully say that is
typically not the case in the Nordics. So you would need a physical event to trigger the business
interruption cover. So you would need a building on fire or you would need a flooding or you would
need a storm or something to trigger the event.
So there's really no change that business interruption as a result of pandemics is not covered in
our policies. I think we have a few very, very small corners of that, but in general, it is not covered
and there's no change on that. So the debate you're seeing in a number of other geographies is
not relevant for us.



Q - Derald Goh

{BIO 20775137 <GO>}

Yes. And just your comment and you ever (inaudible) might still see some adverse development,
so what you're saying here is that if any at all it's going to just be a very material amount? Is that
correct?

FINAL

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

I think, you can argue that if you look at the guarantee business, that is still dependent upon the
number of bankruptcies we'll see in society, but we see that the guarantee business is also being
helped by aid packages supporting the companies, so it doesn't look very likely but that we'll have
a material negative impact, but there the link is not to business interruption, it is to the risk of
defaults.

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}

And I think that's also what we discussed I believe on last quarter, where this will be very much a
different timing from some of the other immediate things that we have seen in first and second
quarter. This is something that will come slightly later depending on how the economies will pick up
and how the various sectors will be impacted, so --

Q - Derald Goh

{BIO 20775137 <GO>}

Yes, yes. That's fair. And is there any exposure to think about in terms of the health insurance and
also on events cancellation?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

I think that again typically there are some exposures to what we will call sickness insurance in
Norway, but quite limited. We are not big players in events and events cancellation. We have some
insurances of the liability or the risk of injuries happening at events. But typically our exposure to
events cancellation, which I understand is quite a business area for a lot of international insurers is
it's very, very limited for us. So I would be very surprised if you saw any real impact from that, but
sickness in Norway could drive some impact.

Q - Derald Goh

{BIO 20775137 <GO>}

Yes. And going back to motor, so I think you previously mentioned, you're not seeing any kind of
pressure for rebate. But I'm just thinking about how might benefit still be socialized or passed back
to the customer? Do you have a -- no claims discount in place. And is it the case also that maybe
some of the profit sharing agreements that you have with your partners would see some of these
benefits flow through there?

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Well. I think it's a sensible question, but if you look at the first six months in total, you see, as we
talk about for instance in motor rather high claims pattern before COVID-19, then extremely low
claims for a few weeks of COVID-19 and then back to normal at the end of the quarter, and
actually June looks very high. So the reality is if you look at it from a full six-month point of view,
there's really no large net reduction that should call for any discounts or any profit sharing changes.
So I -- we don't see that as a major driver.

Q - Derald Goh

{BIO 20775137 <GO>}

Yes, yes. And one last question, please, just on the commercial growth. So it's 4% organic growth
in the quarter, could I get a sense of the volume and pricing contribution from this 4%? And the
reason for that is just I'm just trying to understand what kind of impact has the lockdown had on
underlying volumes?

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}



FINAL

If you look at the underlying impact on volumes, it's actually been more limited than what we
anticipated. We have seen smaller adjustments, but it's not any material impact that we have seen
so far. I think the area is probably most within motor, again adjusting the kilometers on the cars and
so forth, but that is actually the area where we have seen more impact or some impact so to
speak.
The growth of 4% -- 4.4%, if you look at the commercial business we have, it's a slightly different
story if you look at Denmark and Norway. In Norway, it will be a larger proportion which stems from
the -- from pricing activities. Whereas in Denmark, in particular, given the partnership we have with
Danske and the penetration of the SME segment the initiatives that we have around the cyber
insurance, which have you can say spirit -- a very good dialogue with our customers, that has been
driving quite a good growth in terms of the Danish business. So a slightly different case depending
on whether you look at the Norwegian or the Danish business in terms of where does the growth
stem from.

Q - Derald Goh

{BIO 20775137 <GO>}

Okay. That's all from my side. Thank you very much.

Operator
And our last question is from Tyson Edwards [ph] from HSBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Hi. It's Steven Haywood here. Can I ask three questions, please? Firstly on motor claim inflation,
what kind of level are you seeing at the moment? And how is this being impacted by the delay in
repairs and delay in getting parts and additional high costs? Thanks.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

I think in the -- there's a little bit of difference between the countries, so I think in Denmark we're
not really seeing a delay in the repairs, I think we do see that the parts have been available and
repairs have been done. And the inflation looks like what we saw prior to COVID-19 which is
generally a trend where particularly the higher safety equipment parts are much more expensive
and that is in isolation that had a challenge. Whereas the more ordinary parts replacement has an
ordinary fairly low inflation and then we use our procurement power to pull that down. But I think
the reality is that our pricing of newer cars has been capturing that well. So that's really not a worry
point.
And then I think the main change and that's not a COVID-19, it started way before, it has been that
for Norway given the currency development, the price of imported spare parts has been a lot
higher which has been driving the need for higher price increases in Norwegian motor. But that is a
debate which is a number of quarters old and it's a trend that we have been capturing. It hasn't -it's still a trend. So we still need to make sure we handle it, but it's really not new and it's really not
a result of COVID-19. So I wouldn't expect a changed pattern or a certain or sudden spike as a
result of that.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. And then on your investment portfolio, the equity exposure has gone up significantly
and is that because of your buying more equities or just because of the mark-to-market
movement? And also related to that my final question is, you aren't getting full credit for your Tier
2 instrument. Would you consider buying more equities to increase the SCR to get more credit for
the Tier 2 instrument?

A - Barbara Plucnar Jensen

{BIO 17487867 <GO>}



FINAL

No. I think, if we start with the latter question on buying equities to offset, you can say our Tier 2
that is not something we plan to do. In terms of the equity exposure, some of that is rebalancing
and obviously the mark-to-market value is the big driver. We haven't changed our investment
strategy. We haven't rebalanced to a larger degree our asset allocation. So you can say it is very
much driven from the market movements that we have experienced in the quarter.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
And as there are no further questions, I will hand the word back to the speakers for any final
comments.

A - Morten Hubbe

{BIO 7481116 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you so much for calling in today and for all your very good questions. If you have more
tomorrow and later on today, Peter and I are always available, otherwise, I'd just take the chance to
tell you have a great summer to everybody. Thanks.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

