Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

Annual General Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Montague , Chairman
Andrew Reid, Lead - Group External Communications
George Culmer, Incoming Non-Executive Chairman
Jason Windsor, Chief Financial Officer
Kirstine Cooper, Company Secretary
Maurice Tulloch, Chief Executive Officer

Presentation
Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Welcome, everyone, to our presentation today. Thank you all so much for joining us in
these unusual circumstances. I am Adrian Montague, your Chairman, at least for the next
few hours. Joining me here in St Helens, socially distancing of course, is Kirsty Cooper, our
Company Secretary and I'm also joined by George Culmer, who will be taking over from
me as your new Chairman tomorrow. And with us via video link are Maurice Tulloch, our
CEO and Jason Windsor, our CFO.
I'm very sorry, we can't all be meeting in person. As you know, we have moved the venue
of this meeting from the QE II Center to our Head Office. We are seated in the auditorium
underneath the office and actually it's a bit spooky as normally this place will be teeming
with people and today there are only a handful of us here.
As we have always said, our AGM is an important moment in the calendar. It allows us to
update you on the company's progress and performance. More to the point, it gives you,
our shareholders, the chance to hold us to account and tell us what is on your mind.
Obviously, current circumstances make our usual gathering impossible. Our priority has to
be everybody's health. And so, in line with the government's guidance, we are having to
do things differently.
I might say in passing that this is not the first time our AGM has had to adapt to the
unexpected. Some of you may remember that on a Friday night, nearly 30 years ago, a
bomb exploded not a 100 yards from where I'm standing now. The offices of Commercial
Union, as Aviva was then, were badly damaged. But by Monday morning, the business
was fully operational again. Our AGM was due to happen only a few days later. The
Chairman had to open the meeting in front of a totally ruined venue, only to adjourn and
move everyone to a different location in especially laid on buses. Everybody then worked
together in the face of a shocking and unforeseen event. They worked for each other,
they worked for our customers and they worked for our shareholders. In the face of this
terrible pandemic, we're simply trying to follow their example today.

Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

Now, we concluded the formal business of the AGM a little earlier. All the resolutions
passed and you will find the full results on our website later today. The aim of this
presentation now, as far as possible, is to recreate the vital dialog that normally happens
between our shareholders and your Board. Sadly, it will lack the usual energy. But we will
shortly answer your questions or at least try to.
Thank you all for taking the time to send in your questions. Before that, Maurice will say a
few words about the year, including how we've lived up to our purpose in responding to
the coronavirus pandemic. And before that, few short points from me.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, the coronavirus has shown just how connected this world is and how vulnerable we
can all be. It's underlined just how important Aviva's purpose truly is. Beyond any narrow
interests, global problems need responsible actors, working together for the common
good. Aviva will continue to do its part. Be that in caring for our customers, investing in the
economy, or supporting small businesses. Be that playing an active responsible part in our
communities or be that continuing to do our part in the fight against climate change,
helping to build sustainable future for us all.
My second point is on the dividend. I and the whole Board understand how important the
dividend is. The decision to withdraw the recommendation to pay the 2019 final dividend
to ordinary shareholders was reached by the Board after a long and serious deliberation.
Given the uncertainty caused by the virus and the clear view of our regulators, both here
and in other markets, we took the prudent course. And as we said at the time, we expect
to reconsider distributions to ordinary shareholders in the last quarter of this year. We
have had a lot of questions on the subject of the dividend and I will return to this during
our questions session in a few moments time.
Finally, on a personal note, this is my last AGM as your Chairman. These were not the
circumstances I'd have anticipated for saying my farewells to you and I'm sorry not to be
able to do so in person. In welcoming George's appointment last week, I said that Aviva
had many opportunities for the future. Seizing those opportunities will require three
things; clear strategic thinking, purposeful decision making, and strong execution. And
those actions must be guided by Aviva's purpose, to be there for our customers, for our
colleagues, and for communities today, particularly in these extraordinarily testing times
and long into the future.
In my tenure as Chairman, I have cherished the time I've spent with our people across the
business. It's humbling to see first hand their commitment to looking after our customers,
their commitment to Aviva and their commitment to do the right thing. And these are the
qualities that have been so evident in this pandemic. The business has responded quite
magnificently to the challenges of a COVID-19 world. So be in no doubt, I will be cheering
you all along from the sidelines as this is a great company and deserves everyone's
support.
So I will be moving on, but I will retain the fondest memories. Actually, I won't be moving
very far as my new office at the city UK is a stone's throw away just across the Pianca [ph]
from St Helens. But I have no doubt whatsoever that I will always remain and always feel

Page 2 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

like a member of this Aviva family. And there is a family atmosphere in this business. One
of our values is to care more and it's a value which I see everybody in the business is
striving to live up to every day in putting our customers first and continuing to do so,
notwithstanding all of the operational challenges that working from home during this
pandemic has created.
I'm very proud of you all and it has been a privilege to be the Chairman of Aviva. And on
that note, it's over to Maurice.

Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Thank you, Sir Adrian. Hello, everybody. I've had the very great pleasure of working with
the Chairman closely over the last five years. I know first-hand how much you care about
this great business of ours. I want to pay tribute to all that you've done for Aviva. I'm sure
my fellow shareholders will, like me, wish you all the best in your next endeavors. I look
forward to working closely with George.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, ladies and gentlemen, like Sir Adrian, I also wish we could be together in person
today. You know, our normal life has turned upside down. We are all having to reconsider
what we once took for granted. I just saw in the video, at the start, our purpose to be with
you today for a better tomorrow has been the guiding star for how Aviva has responded
to COVID 19. Being there for each other has never felt more important even while we're
apart and I could not be more proud of what Team Yellow has done in the last few
months.
Our first priority was to look after the safety and well-being of our people from China to
Italy, the UK, Canada. We got our teams out of their offices as quickly as we could. Almost
all our people now are working from home. We're paying them as normal, even where
they take time out to care for children or elderly relatives. And we're not using the UK
government's scheme to furlough Aviva employees.
Looking after our people means they have been able to focus all their attention on
looking after our customers. In the UK, we've given free car breakdown cover and
enhanced home insurance to our customers who work in the NHS. Across our markets,
we've offered extra little help like payment deferrals, automatic cover extension, and
reduced motor premiums. Day after day, new situations and new questions come up. Day
after day, we've sorted them out.
Just one example. We had a customer who wanted to turn their property into a nursery to
look after the children of tea workers. Within just a few hours we were able to extend
their cover. We've been doing what we can to help our communities too. We've
committed a total of GBP43 million to help those most in need, money going to the
British Red Cross, NHS charities and funds across our markets. In France, we're directing
our investments to support the real economy, allocating EUR100 million to invest in small
and medium-sized businesses. It's not been easy, but the last few months have shown
Aviva, I believe, at our best, truly carrying more.

Page 3 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

Now, we came into the crisis with strong foundations and a robust financial position. This
might feel like a distant memory to some, but it's certainly worth recapping. Last
November, we set out our strategic priorities to run Aviva better; focusing on the
fundamentals, giving our customers great outcomes, investing in sustainable growth.
We've improved accountability, organizing the business into five divisions and splitting out
the life and general insurance businesses in the UK. And we've reported some
encouraging results, a strong resilient capital position with GBP12.6 billion of Solvency II
capital surplus at year-end, record operating profit of GBP3.2 billion, a return on equity of
14.3%. We've made good progress last year, but there is still much to do to improve the
performance and enhance the returns.

Bloomberg Transcript

And since our results, the world has of course changed. Last week, we released our Q1
Trading Update. Aviva had a solid first quarter trading. General insurance sales increased
3% and we had a particularly strong performance in the life business where new business
increased 28%. We are still in the early stages in claims development on COVID-19, so its
ultimate impact on Aviva still has a high level of uncertainty. But based on the analysis as
of the 30th of April, our estimate of the COVID-19 claims impact on our general insurance
business when we incorporate both noticed and projected claims is GBP160 million net of
reinsurance. Our financial strength means we are well positioned to manage this crisis and
continue support our customers.
Inevitably, our thoughts are turning towards the future. I know all of you will be particularly
interested in the dividend. As Adrian remarked, the Board fully recognizes the importance
of cash dividends to all of our ordinary shareholders. It expects to reconsider any
distributions to ordinary shareholders in the fourth quarter of 2020. The world will be a
different place for a long time to come. What our customers need will change. There may
well be a shift in demand for wellness, for critical illness cover, a renewed focus on the
need to save for those unexpected life events. We've had to pivot and change our
products and services many times before in our 324-year history. We stand ready to do it
again, to keep supporting our customers and keep meeting their needs, living up to our
purpose for them, and in doing so, delivering for you, our shareholders too.
Thank you for all your continued support. I'd now like to hand back to the Chairman for the
Q&A.

Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you, Maurice. Now, before we go to Q&A, I'd like to congratulate George on his
appointment as Chairman and take this opportunity to ask him to say a few words to you
all. George?

George Culmer

{BIO 3357265 <GO>}

Thank you, Chairman, and hello, everyone. I'd just like to say how honored I am to be
appointed. I would like to thank Sir Adrian for his service to Aviva over the last seven years
and for his leadership during what has been a period of considerable change.

Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

As we know, Aviva's purpose for more than 320 years has been to support its customers
and communities when it really matters. And this has never been more important than it is
today and in the weeks and months to come. I'm looking forward to working closely with
Maurice and the whole management team to make sure Aviva continues to be there for
all our customers, our colleagues, and for you, our shareholders.

FINAL

And with that, I'll hand you back to Sir Adrian.

Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you, George. And now for the Q&A. We will do our best to answer each and every
question submitted by our shareholders before Friday's deadline. Shareholders have had
the opportunity to submit a question to the meeting and the deadline for receipt of
shareholder questions was last Friday. I recognize that things have moved on since the
notice of meeting was first published and some questions have been superseded by
time. However, in the interest of transparency, we will read out every question which was
submitted. In the interest of time, we've collated questions of a similar nature into
batches and we'll answer them altogether.
To inject a little life into the proceedings, I've asked Andrew Reid here in the room with us
to read out the questions as they have been submitted. So, Andrew, it's over to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

The first question is from Mr. Beetle. [ph]. I understand why we cannot hold the AGM
regarding the compulsory government measures. But I would like to know why the
meeting is not being held by electronic means such as a Zoom meeting or any others like
the Zoom system? A company the size of Aviva should be able to do so. Could you
please answer why this is not the case? There should have been much more thought
about the ways an AGM could have been conducted due to this pandemic, giving all
shareholders a say. It shouldn't be held behind closed doors presenting the Board an easy
ride.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you Mr. Beetle. We gave a lot of thought and consideration to the best way of
arranging the AGM in these current circumstances, because we wanted to ensure that we
both protected the health and well-being of our employees and our shareholders whilst
not limiting the opportunity for shareholder engagement. Personally, as I said earlier, I am
disappointed that at my final AGM as the Chairman, I've not had the opportunity to meet
and talk to our shareholders.
We have over half a million shareholders. And any electronic systems we use, need to
have been thoroughly tested. Electronic cloud platforms are not yet equipped to take
such a large numbers and at the moment, they present both security and confidentiality
issues. It's important that any means of holding the meeting electronically is secure and
Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

that we can provide access to shareholders, identify the attendees, and ensure the good
order of the meeting.
For the future, we will continue to review the way our AGM is managed and we'll consider
other options which we think are suitable and safe. This, I hope this shareholder
presentation has provided and will provide an opportunity for shareholders to hear from
the CEO and myself and receive an update on our community activities as part of
supporting our response to COVID-19.
In order to facilitate the engagement with the Board, the shareholders, as I said, have
been able to pre-submit questions for the Q&A. And I can tell you that the number of
questions we've received actually is broadly in line with those we received in previous
years. We believe this AGM format was the best way to balance the need to protect our
employees and shareholders whilst allowing the opportunity for shareholder
engagement. The majority of FTSE 100 companies are holding their AGMs in a similar way
and so we think we are in line with best practice amongst our peer group.
Thank you very much. Andrew, can we have the next question?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

The next question is from Mr. Meadowcroft. [ph] During the past year, the Senior
Independent Director, Glyn Barker and the Chairman have resigned from the Board. You
yourself Chairman have stated you will remain in post until a successor has been
appointed. Assuming your successor is not appointed between submitting the
shareholder question and when it is hopefully answered on May the 26, you will be
seeking re-election to the Board. I will leave aside the obvious question about the Board's
lack of succession planning, a primary task for every Board of Directors in respect of the
CEO and the Chairman.
This Board management deficiency in our company was evident when Mark Wilson was
removed as CEO in October 2018. Bearing in mind that our company has dropped from
23rd to 39th as of May 15 in the FTSE 100 by market cap since the AGM 2018 and that the
Aviva share price has fallen 57% from 540p when you became Chairman at the 2015 AGM
to 229p it opened up this morning, May the 18th or it's fallen by 35% by the end of
February before the COVID-19 impact. Can you please unequivocally confirm to
shareholders and stakeholders that neither your resignation in January this year and Mr.
Barker's resignation as Senior Independent Director a month earlier had any connection
whatsoever with the widespread speculation of which the Board must surely have been
aware on whether Aviva should be broken up?

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you Mr. Meadowcroft. I think there are really two aspects to this question. Firstly,
there are some governance questions you raise and then you go on to ask about my
position. So I'll ask Kirsty perhaps to deal with the governance issues. And then I will take
over when it comes to the second part of the question. So, Kirsty?

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

A - Kirstine Cooper

{BIO 17156248 <GO>}

Thank you, Adrian. On 21st of January this year, we announced that the Chairman has
informed the Board of his intention to retire as Chairman of the company during 2020
once a successor has been appointed. Our articles of association require that all
members of the Board retire at each Annual General Meeting and stand for re-election. It
was therefore necessary for Adrian to seek re-election in order to enable to ensure a
smooth transition even if subject to receiving shareholder approval, the re-election would
be for a short period of time.
Last week we announced the appointment of George Culmer as Chairman to take effect
from tomorrow. Adrian will therefore retire from the Board at the end of the month. An
important part of maintaining the effectiveness of the Board is ensuring that its nonexecutive directors remain independent and the maximum period a director should
remain in position is nine years.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

To go on to the second part of your question, Mr. Meadowcraft, as I said when I
announced my retirement in January, with a refresh Board in place, a new strategy and
Maurice now in his stride, it is the right time for me to step down. When I was appointed,
the Board asked me for a commitment that I would serve a five-year term and therefore
this AGM really marks a natural transition point for me as well.
Of course, I will have been on the board for seven and a half years and Glyn was on the
Board at -- for more than eight years. So both of us are anyway approaching at the end of
our natural nine-year terms. And I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Glyn for his very
valuable contribution to Aviva during his time on the Board. So should we go to the next
question please, Andrew?

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

The next question comes from Mr. Mason Mann. [ph] Will you, can you provide information
to the shareholders about any investigation by the FCA into the behavior of named Board
Directors of Aviva plc? You, the Chairman, the Incoming Chairman, the CEO and other
named individuals concerning their failure to comply with Principle 1 and Principle 2 of the
FCA's Principles for Business?

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Mason Mann. Well, we've noted in the recent letter that the Chairman of
the Treasury Select Committee, Mel Stride, sent to the FCA inquiring about progress in
their investigation. I mean, as we said before, the preference share issue was a
disappointing episode for Aviva. And certainly there are lessons that have been learned.
From the outset, Aviva consulted with the FCA including over our discretionary goodwill
payment scheme launched following the announcement and we've engaged and will
continue to engage with the FCA in relation to its investigation of the preference share
issue.

Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

Now, I need to correct you on one point. There is no suggestion at all in Mr. Stride's letter
or otherwise of concerns about any particular individuals now or previously with Aviva or of
any alleged failure to comply with the FCA's Principles of Business. As we set out two
years ago now in March 2018, we announced that we would take no action to cancel the
preference shares. Under current regulations, the preference shares will no longer
account as regulatory capital in 2026.
We will work our way towards obtaining regulatory approval for the classification of the
preference shares or a similar substitute, a substitute to qualify as capital from 2026
onwards. If, as we approach 2026, we need to reconsider this position, we will do so after
taking into account the fair market value of the preference shares at that time. That is
what we have said a couple of years ago and that's what I reiterate now.
So we can perhaps go to the next question, Andrew.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is from Mr. Beetle. [ph] Did any Board member leaving the company
receive a golden goodbye or did any parachuted and received a golden hello. According
to the Annual Report Page 87, why did the base salary of the CEO Maurice Tulloch jump
from GBP706,000 in 2018 to GBP946,000 in 2019, a difference of some GBP240,000. In
percentage terms, this is an increase of 34% and his total package has increased by
some GBP911,000. How does the salary increase in percentage terms of 34% compare to
all of the employees? What was the average pay increase in percentage terms to these
employees?

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Beetle. I can confirm that no Board member received payments that could
be considered either as golden goodbyes or golden hellos. Their remuneration, as you
know, is set in accordance with our remuneration policy which specifically prevents such
payments.
Maurice was promoted to the position of Group CEO on the 4th of March last year, and
that's why his salary has increased. His new salary was disclosed at the time of his
appointment and in the 2019 Annual Report. On his appointment, the remuneration
community gave careful consideration to Maurice's remuneration including his salary and
bonus, taking into account a number of factors, including the level of responsibility that
the role entails. Maruice's salary as Group CEO was also set below that of his
predecessor.
Maruice's 2019 bonus was pro rated to reflect the different salary and bonus opportunity
whilst he was CEO of the international businesses and then Group CEO during the year.
You cannot directly compare the change in salary for one promoted individual like Maurice
with the average for a large number of employees over 15,000 in the UK, the vast
majority of whom will have remained in the same or a similar role. As we disclosed in the
2019 Annual Report, the change in salary for UK employees was on average 3.8%. The

Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

package for each individual promoted to a new role is carefully considered on a case-bycase basis which is what happened when Maurice was appointed.
So thank you very much, Mr. Beetle. And let's go to the next question, Andrew.

FINAL

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

We now have a number of questions regarding the share price. The first is from Mr. Bell.
[ph] The share price performance over the last three years has not been satisfactory.
Compared to its peers in the sector, it has performed very poorly and the recent
cancellation of the dividend has led to further poorer share price performance. What will
the Board do to increase shareholder value over the next 12 to 18 months? And are they
aware that a weak share price makes the company vulnerable to a potential takeover?

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question comes from a shareholder who wishes to remain anonymous. The
share price has fallen from over GBP5 a share to GBP2.30 a share and the market
capitalization has fallen from over GBP20 billion to GBP9 billion, decreases of over 50% in
both cases. In addition, the final dividend for 2019 has been canceled, despite other
insurers such as LNG and Standard Life Aberdeen maintaining their upcoming payments.
When the 2019 results were announced, it was stated that the Solvency cover ratio was
1.75 after allowing for the dividend to be paid. What actions are the Board considering to
take to address both a massive fall in the share price and also the loss of the dividend
that relates to the 2019 results, not the forecast results for 2020? If things continue
unchanged, Aviva is leaving itself open to a takeover bid which at least would result in
some additional value being returned to the shareholders. We are both shareholders in
Aviva and we would both vote for any such bid to succeed as we are desperately
disappointed with the current management.
The next question comes from Mr. King. [ph] Nowhere in the strategic report is there any
reference to the company's share price performance. Whilst the current stock market
turmoil is well understood, Aviva's relative share price performance against its sector
competitors has been very poor. To what does the Chairman attribute the stock market's
poor perception of Aviva and its management team at this time? Long suffering
shareholders deserve better.
And this question is from (inaudible). Why does the Aviva share price continue to be
outperformed by Legal & General and what have the Board got plans so this doesn't
continue to happen?
And the final share price question comes from Mr. Patel. Could you relay my
disappointment to the Board of Directors at the shocking share price performance of
Aviva, down under -- over 50% in under two years and continually sliding nearly every day.
No sense of leadership from Maurice Tulloch and Adrian Montague collecting their fat
salaries while having no regard to the destruction in market capitalization of Aviva. Also,
canceling the final dividend for 2019 when COVID-19 did not affect profits. The Board say
they recognize the importance of dividends to shareholders, are they having a laugh? I
trust my views will be put forward to the Board of Directors at the AGM.
Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, indeed they have been put forward, Mr. Patel. Thank you very much. These very
recent questions cover both the dividend and the performance of the company. We will
come on in a few minutes time to questions regarding -- specifically regarding the
dividend. But at this stage I'd like to ask Maurice to comment on performance and share
price. Maurice, over to you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Adrian, and thanks for the questions from our shareholders. In 2019, our
total shareholder return was 20% versus the FTSE 100 return of 17% over the same
period. It's clearly been a more difficult time so far this year, but the Board, my
management team, and everyone at Aviva is fully aligned in working to enhance
shareholder value by being even more prudent than usual in managing our capital, in
turning our performance improvement initiatives and supporting our customers,
colleagues and the broader community through these incredibly challenging times.

Bloomberg Transcript

Some of the disappointment in share price can be attributed to external factors. UK
financials had a torrid time given the political uncertainty of recent years and COVID-19
has placed additional pressure on Aviva and its peers. However, we are also striving hard
to improve our own performance. My team are implementing the changes necessary to
achieve this. We are focused on improving efficiency, enhancing customer service, and
being better at the fundamentals of insurance. We have seen some early signs in our
2019 results that this is bearing fruit. We had record operating profit of GBP3.2 billion and
a Solvency II return on equity of 14.3% in 2019.
In our recent first quarter update, you can see that our business has been trading strongly,
with life new business up 28% and general insurance net premiums up 3%. But please, we
have no doubt that there is more to do. I believe that running Aviva better will deliver
these better results. I'm focused on three main priorities; delivering great customer
outcomes, excelling at the fundamentals, and investing in sustainable growth.
Delivering against these will help us fulfill our purpose of helping customers towards a
better tomorrow and will also drive higher returns for our shareholders and create longterm value. Lastly, I would add that we will take action where we do not see a path to
sustainable better performance and where we believe we can increase long-term value
for our shareholders. I fully recognize the importance of delivering stronger performance
for our shareholders and we are completely focused on this.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

As I said, we've now got quite a few questions on the dividend. And again, Andrew, if I can
ask you to read them out and then I'll do my best to reply.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

The first question is from a shareholder who wishes to remain anonymous. In suspending
the dividend this year, the Board appears to be taking the view that the Coronavirus
presents an unknown risk to your business. How can this be? You are not a bank and
Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

therefore not exposed to a commercial loan portfolio where the risk of a default must
now be high and hard to quantify. Premiums will continue to flow and you can expect a
windfall benefit in general insurance from a reduction in motor claims. You have chosen to
prioritize public relations over investor relations, especially as far as your retail investors
are concerned. Your competitor seem to be taking an opposite view, which will be not be
lost on investors.
The next question comes from Mr. Evans. Why can you not pay 50% of the dividend for
people like me who invested in both in shares and have pensions? To have nothing is
letting thousands of shareholders down. The Board agreed without any referral to
investors like myself who own shares for income and investment?
The next question is from a shareholder who wishes to remain anonymous. I today
received in my bank account my 2019 final dividend from Standard Life Aberdeen. Sir
Douglas Flint, Chairman of Standard Life Aberdeen plc noted in his email to me that the
Board believe that Standard Life Aberdeen can continue to service our clients and
customers, properly operate our business, support our colleagues, and the wider
communities we operate in while paying this final dividend as planned. Why cannot Aviva
pay any even if a reduced amount final dividend to its shareholders? Is Aviva's financial
position so weak?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then a question from Mr. Gantley. Can the Board give any information on the
cancelled dividend and is it ring-fencing on the balance sheet? Is the plan to pay this as a
special dividend at some time in the future?
And then a question from Mr. Baker. On the 5th of March you proposed a final dividend of
21.4p per share for 2019 to be paid on the 2nd of June after you approved the accounts
on the 4th of March. On 8th of April, you announced that it had been withdrawn, would
not be paid on 2nd of June and the position will be reviewed later in 2020. A dividend can
only be paid out of distributable reserves. So you must have believed on the 5th of March
that you had reserved sufficient capital for the needs of the business on a going-concern
basis leaving the proposed dividend free and clear. What changed in the intervening 35
days that justified a complete reversal of your original position? Why was canceling the
dividend so urgently necessary? Were the private individuals ravaged by your decision
whose holdings derive from their losses on the demutualization of Norwich Union not
entitled to matching and volatility adjustments?
And then a question from a shareholder who wishes to remain anonymous. Why did Aviva,
a larger company in good standing, decide to cut the dividend?
Then a question from Mr. Taylor. Today's trading update reads generally positively.
However, you have forgotten about your shareholders. Nowhere did you give any
comment on the postponed cancelled dividend or any indication of when the
reinstatement of the dividend is on the agenda.
And finally, a question from Mr. Cornes. [ph] Could you ask the Board how they justified
the removal of the dividend in light of the latest figures?
Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you all for those questions. As I said right at the start, I understand that the decision
on dividend has created a lot of unease and hostility I think among our shareholders. So
let me start just by recalling, not that it needs any recall to you all that COVID 19 is both
unique and unprecedented in modern history. The situation as we all know very well
developed very quickly through March and the Board agreed that the uncertainty in the
outlook merited additional caution and prudence in managing our capital position.
Maintaining maximum capital strength, focusing our efforts on ensuring that we keep up
our strong customer service levels and continuing to drive the internal performance
initiatives, these are the things that will put us in the best shape to maintain, restore, and
ultimately increase value for shareholders when COVID 19 eventually passes.

Bloomberg Transcript

We do have strong capital buffers, but given the unprecedented uncertainty in the
outlook, both in March and now, it is right and prudent to preserve our strength within the
business to ensure that we can be resilient in the short term and emerge at the end of
this in the strongest possible position. Six weeks ago was the height of the uncertainty.
We thought long and hard about the decision to withdraw the dividend as we fully
recognized, not just it's importance to shareholders, but how for some, perhaps many
shareholders, it's a vital ingredient in managing their budgets.
In particular, we understand that our retail shareholders hold Aviva shares for the income
that the dividend provides and this was not an easy decision to make. However, the
overriding principle of the decision was to maintain capital and liquidity strength and that
meant suspending the entire final dividend. We simply felt it was the right decision in the
circumstances. It's also important to note that we are through this decision aligned with
our regulators both here in the UK and cross our markets. And we think it's right to follow
their guidance.
We are faced with significant uncertainty in relation to COVID-19 which obviously is
material risks for the economy. So preserving our capital strength is the right way forward
so we come through this period in the strongest possible shape and as we outlined in our
statement and Maurice has already mentioned, the Board will reconsider the question of
distributions in the fourth quarter of this year. I hope that has explained the Board's
position. I'm conscious that it will not please everybody, but at the end of the day, we
need to keep the company strong and that's what we have done.
So let's go to the next question, Andrew, for me.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

So we have a number of questions from Mr. Baker. Has the Solvency risk appetite been
changed since the 2018 AGM within the terms of the S-107 scheme document? If so, what
controls were in place on that change? Was the Chair of the risk committee consulted?
The assets backing the annuities paid to policyholders have been moved towards
properties such as lifetime mortgages in search of yield. The residential property market
is illiquid on government advise not to move home unless absolutely necessary. This puts
loan to value at risk and increases the likelihood of having to claim against third parties to
cover the rest of the property value will not cover the accumulated debt.
Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

This is quite a long question from Mr. Baker and so what we've done is to chop it up into
more digestible bits. Jason will answer them. And so, Jason, it's over to you.

FINAL

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, Andrew. Good morning, Mr. Baker. The Solvency risk appetite you
referred to is the UK Life and Pensions subsidiary, which was passed into the scheme in
2018, simply put, there has not been a change to the approach in which the Solvency risk
appetite assessing the [ph] UK Life and Pensions. It is a matter for the Risk Committee
and therefore the Chairman of the Risk Committee does get involved in the governance
on the other side of the risk appetite within the subsidiary.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

Have the solvency of counterparties been checked in this connection and what was the
result?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We've got a broader approach to credit management and counterparties that they are
subject to our group credit limit framework, which are checked routinely and our
counterparties are tracked with their credit ratings and other developments and that's a
continuous process. And the UK Life Investment Committee, we take the lead on that
supported by the Risk Committee and the Board and then, we as the shareholder, stay
apprised of that through our group (inaudible) So there is no significant changes.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

There is no such concept within the SFCR reporting rules laid down by the FCA PRA as a
shareholder view of SFCR. Shareholders are entitled to assess the risk of burn through
were all the assets of the insurer are consumed in backing guaranteed risks so a rights
issue is needed. Will the Board consider changing the language of the SFCR to report
clearly according to the standard set out in law and regulations whilst referring to the
fictitious shareholder view as an assessment of burn through risk outside the SFCR? Is a
183% your SFCR on the regulatory basis and policyholder view or is it less if TMTPs
redress possible fines on the fictitious assets in question are taken into account? If it is
less, what is your plan to eliminate TMTP's misconduct and fictitious assets?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

So our SFCR, the solvency and financial condition report clearly does set out both the
regulatory view and the shareholder view. So we include the shareholder view as we
consider that to be more representative for shareholders risk exposure and the Group's
ability to cover the FCR with eligible own funds and this aligns with how management
dynamically allocate and manage the business.
As an example, at the end of 2019, we did not take the benefit of the 0.4 reduction in
own funds following the regulatory change in France into our shareholder view as this was
not capital available for the Group. This increase in the owned funds was included in the
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

regulatory position as it was also included in the French subsidiary. As we manage our
business on a shareholder basis, it is important that this is included in those sections on
capital management in the SFCR. The shareholder view excludes owned funds and FCR in
respective of profit funds and pension schemes that are in surplus. However, it does
include the risk of burn through to shareholders from those with profit funds and pension
schemes that have deficits.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

There are two questions from Mr. Meacock. I attach a copy of a question I asked at last
year's AGM about PPI complaints. Claudia Arney in response indicated that she was aware
of the situation and the protocol had been changed. Having locked out of the FOS figures
for the same six months last year, where 40.74% of complaints made against Aviva were
upheld against the market average of 16%, is it clear that protocol changes have not been
as successful as they should have been? Will this be addressed?

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Meacock. We'll perhaps turn to Maurice, both this question and the one
that follows it. Maurice?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Thank you, Chairman. And thanks for the question. This is a follow-on from a question
which Mr. Meacock asked at last year's AGM which related to the handling of PPI
complaints by Aviva. Now although Aviva's performance continues to track above the
industry average of 60%. Now, this should be measured against the continued reduction
in referrals of the Financial Ombudsman Service, the FOS, prior to the time bar date of
the 29th of August last year 2019. The reduction referrals is evidence of the
improvements that have been embedded into the process which ensure customers
receive fair outcomes to their PPI mis-selling complaints.
Decisions resulting in a change of favor during the second half of 2019 was 40.74% for
customers on their payment protection insurance complaints and that had improved 21%
when compared to half two 2018. Referrals to the Financial Ombudsman Service were
expected to increase during 2020 as a result of the time bar deadline, which saw
unprecedented volumes of PPI mis-selling complaints being received across the industry
as a whole in the weeks leading up to the time bar. Customers will use their regulatory
rights to refer the complaint to the FOS after eight weeks, and this may affect FOS
performance over the next 12 to 18 months.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

Aviva quite properly authorizes certain agents to accept business on its behalf were the
agent determines at their sole discretion the premium to apply for the policy instead of
Aviva being involved. In such a situation does Aviva scrutinize the agent's actions to
ensure that all policy holders, new and existing, are treated fairly in respect to premiums
charged?

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

FINAL

I should point out, part of the answer to this question relates to a specific product query
Mr. Meacock has sent us in the form of a case study. Now as that does not form part of
the business of the AGM, we contacted him directly to answer that specific question, but
let me speak more in terms of the general point that's being raised on how Aviva
manages agents, actions to ensure that all policyholders, new and existing, are treated
fairly in respect of premiums charged. I would offer the following comments.
As a general insurance underwriter, we assess all of our products on a regular basis,
looking at a range of measures. For example, complaints, claim repudiation, claim
frequency, average premiums, and average claims costs. Where products do not appear
to be delivering good customer value and outcomes, appropriate action is taken. In terms
of the new business renewal pricing, we welcome the FCA's market (inaudible) issue and
remain committed to working with the FCA in the wider industry. We've also taken action
to limit differences between new and old prices for customers choosing to buy insurance
products with Aviva.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

Next is a question from a shareholder who wishes to remain anonymous. Why doesn't
Aviva start an online service to attract new business, selling and buying shares for ISAs
and pensions, like the AJ Bell format or Hargreaves Lansdown?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah, the majority of our pension and ISA assets are invested through funds which is a
focus of our IFA and direct consumer platforms. We recognize that some investors also
have different holdings and shares and other assets and then they wish to hold alongside
those funds and their pensions and ISAs. This is already available to investors with a
financial advisor using our advise platform.
We're currently exploring whether this option could be offered to investors, managing
pensions and ISAs without an advisor. We will be broadening our direct customer
proposition, including a focus on our existing ESG Prudential's and new opportunities to
invest in ethically and socially responsible funds. This draws on the expertise of Aviva
Investors and their track record in the area of responsible investing.
Our new division, the investment savings and retirement divisions of AVIVA is focused on
helping people look after all stages of their savings retirement needs and we continue to
look for new ways to educate and support that journey. Responsible investing is a core
element of the way people want to invest for the future. Our strategy is to provide better
quality, value and customer choice, helping our customers take control of their financial
future.
We will do this through building a simple customer experience, being easy to do business
with, with digital engagement at the core for both our customers and distributors.
Streamlining savings and retirement journeys, providing an omnichannel experience and
leveraging our capabilities across the market. Working across our businesses provide an
Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

ever-increasing range of investment solutions that suit the needs of our customers. We're
incredibly proud to help thousands of customers today to invest, to grow their wealth and
retire with Aviva.

FINAL

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Maurice. We are now moving on to our last group of questions
which is generally about ESG. And Andrew, perhaps I'll turn the questions over to you.
Again, they are really all for Maurice to answer, so we can just take them straight to him.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

Two questions from Ms. Warren. On page 52 of the Annual Report and Account 2019, we
read that Aviva continues to minimize the amount of waste to landfill or recycling and
furthermore that our ambition over time is that our business operation should have
positive climate impact. In relation to the first statement, I wish to query why Aviva aims to
minimize the amount of waste going to recycling, but not to waste incineration, our
position that contradicts the waste hierarchy principle?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for that question and I think it's a good catch. The first statement in respect of
our general insurance claims process, so we've now changed them to minimize the
amount of waste going to landfill or recycling. Few our claims process we're seeking to
minimize waste however it's processed, through better response times and improved
drying and restoration techniques. In relation to your second statement, I ask what level of
net thermal efficiency. So I think that's the -- I'll let -- Andrew, I'll pass back to you.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Let's go back to the second part of Ms. Warren's question I think. I might just say -- I think
one of the great skills of a Chairman is know when not to answer a question. Ms. Warren
talks about net thermal efficiency. I'm delighted that Maurice is going to take this question
for me. So, back to you, Andrew.

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

In relation to the second statement, I ask what level of net thermal efficiency Aviva should
consider to be a success for its biomass and waste plants? Net thermal efficiency is key to
determining the climate impacts of waste burning plants.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Take it away, Maurice.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yes, sure. I was getting ahead of myself on the question and the answer. But thank you for
the question. And let me provide you with an answer. All our plans include measures to
increase energy efficiency. Specifically regasification plants are designed with energy

Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

efficiency features, such as high efficiency motors, high standards of clotting and
insulation.
The boiler plants designed to achieve a high level of thermal efficiency, circa between
70% and 80%. In particular, boilers are equipped with economizers and super-heaters to
optimize the thermal cycle efficiency. Unnecessary releases of steam and hot water are
avoided to avoid the loss of boiler water treatment chemicals and the heat contained
within the steam and water. Steady operation of the gasifier is maintained where
necessary by using auxiliary fuel firing.
Boiler heat exchange services are cleaned on a regular basis to ensure heat recovery.
Flue gases from the combustion zone are fed to the boiler, which is designed to cool the
flue gas exiting the secondary combustion chambers and recover the heat as superheated steam for the use in the steam turbine. Prevention of uncontrolled air ingress
within the gasification process is achieved by providing and maintaining seals. And the
gasification facility is designed to minimize the transfer of materials.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Maurice. I think that that speaks to my wisdom in passing on that
question, but I'm much better informed now that I was two minutes ago.
Let's move on to what I think is our last question, Andrew.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Reid

{BIO 17577223 <GO>}

And that is from (inaudible). Aviva is a signatory of the Powering Past Coal Alliance, which
states that the use of thermal power, thermal coal should be eliminated in the OECD by
2013. How does the company ensure the provision of underwriting and other financial
services that are consistent with this and the Paris goals?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Well, so we restrict underwriting carbon intensive activities such as mining, offshore oil and
gas extraction and we will expand these to cover more sectors going forward. It's worth
noting that at the start of 2019 Aviva global specialty risk underwriting area exited the
standalone operational fossil fuel power market as part of our commitment to help tackle
climate change. This has been matched by our local general insurance market teams
around the world. We continue to regularly review our investment exposure to thermal
coal and through the development of a transitioned pathway approach as part of our
climate change strategy, we will meet or beat the Powering Past Coal Alliance finance
principles commitment. We are committed to align our insurance and investment
approach to support the goal of the alliance to limit the use of thermal coal, eliminating
the OECD by 2030.
Now as an insurer, in November 2019, we took another important step in our commitment
by launching a specialist renewable energy proposition, providing insurance solutions for
the full lifecycle of renewable energy risk worldwide as we look to support the critical
growth ambitions necessary in the renewable energy sector to ultimately assist in
Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

FINAL

reducing our global alliance on fossil fuels. In the last few years, the carbon intensity of
Aviva's own equity and corporate credit portfolio has been reduced by over 25% last year.
Last year, we were the first global insurer, the first, to disclose portfolio warming of our
shareholder investments. For 2019, it stood at 2.9 degrees Celsius compared to our
market figure of 3.5 degree Celsius. You can get all of this information in Aviva's climate
related financial disclosure.
Since 2015, we've run an engagement program with coal companies which have seen
more than 30% -- which have more than 30% of their business by revenue associated
with thermal coal mining, or coal power generation. We are proud that this has resulted in
13 companies committing to stop coal production. For example, Italian multinational
electricity firm ENEL pledged never to build another coal station following our
engagement.

Bloomberg Transcript

As an investor, we believe that we have a duty to engage with companies to drive real
positive change rather than simple divestment. Investors often come under pressure to
divest from companies, but our view is that engagement can be more effective way to
bring about such positive change. As an example, Glencore, Australia's biggest coal miner
signed an engagement with the Investor Collaboration Climate Action 100+, which Aviva
Investors is a member of in its recent decision to cap coal production.
Divestment is not a badge of honor, but it should be used only in cases where
engagement of the company in question doesn't produce the expected results. There
are currently 59 companies on our coal stop list, 42 of which were added in May. We will
continue our engagement with the remaining companies on our target list and we expect
to see further companies added on to the stop list at our next review.
Thank you.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Maurice. Now that brings us to the end of our questions. And
before I formally close this presentation, I would like to hand you back to Maurice for a
moment or two, who will briefly describe the work we've been doing to support our
communities and our charities during the pandemic. So Maurice?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Chairman. I talked earlier about how we were looking after people,
because it's critical that when we're doing that, it helps them continue to look after our
customers, our people and our customers live in the same streets of each other. Aviva is
very much a part of the very fabric of our communities. In many of these places, we've
been there for hundreds and hundreds of years. And so I'm particularly proud of what
we've been able to do for those communities over the last few months.
Some of it's been financial. In the UK, we pledged to donate GBP5 million to NHS charities
to help NHS employees, volunteers, and their patients. We've committed over GBP18
million to the new ABI, Association of British Insurers COVID-19 Support Fund to get
Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

money to the many charities helping people in every community across the United
Kingdom.

FINAL

Our businesses in Italy have donated EUR100,000 to the Milan municipality. In Singapore,
we have pledged financial support to vulnerable families living in the local community. And
we've increased funding to our long-standing partners, the British Red Cross, for instance,
by GBP10 million. This will give support to those most effected both in the UK and globally.
This money will be a lifeline for so many, but I'm even more proud of the other ways our
people have been getting involved. In the UK, we donated our surplus hand sanitizer,
rubber gloves, antiseptic wipes, and face masks to care homes, hospitals, and social care
staff. In Italy, our people donated the value of their annual leave raising another
EUR100,000 to help the hardest hit families and small businesses in the Milan region.

Bloomberg Transcript

Aviva Canada employees expect to dedicate over 90,000 hours volunteering this year to
organizations supporting the vulnerable and the elderly. We've even had people with
medical backgrounds answer the call and volunteer back into the front-line to treat
patients. And of course we've made sure they've been able to do that without losing out
financially.
The Chairman mentioned that our offices are empty right now. I think he said it was
actually pretty spooky. Walking past the deserted desks underlines for me that our
business is not buildings or spreadsheets or PowerPoint presentations. Our business has
always been about people, being there for each other. That's true in the good times, but
it's really put to the test when things go bad. When put to the test this time, I can honestly
say that our people have been amazing. They really are helping to build a better
tomorrow and I want to thank all of them for everything they've done.
Back to you, Sir Adrian.

A - Adrian Montague

{BIO 14013574 <GO>}

Thank you, Maurice. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that brings us to the end of our
presentation today. We've tried to capture some of the flavor of an ordinary Annual
General Meeting and I hope we have dealt with your questions satisfactorily. We have a
skeleton staff in St Helens helping us with this presentation and we've taken great care to
observe all the precautions. But I should thank them especially for coming into the office
and making today possible.
So, all it remains for me to do is to thank you all for your patience and courtesy over the
years, to give you our shareholders and the Board and staff of Aviva my very best wishes
for the future. And to pay a warm welcome to George as he steps into my shoes. Wishing
you all and him every possible success in the years to come. Thank you all so much.

Page 19 of 20



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2020-05-26

Page 20 of 20

