Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

Capital Markets Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Daniel Sundahl, Head of IR
Geir Holmgren, Managing Director, Customer Service and Product
Heidi Skaaret, Executive Vice President, Customer Retail Norway
Jan Erik Saugestad, Executive Vice President, Asset Management
Karin Greve-Isdahl, Executive Vice President, Communications and Investor Relations,
Storebrand
Kjetil R. Krokje, Group Head, Finance & Strategy
Lars Aa. Loddesol, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Odd Arild Grefstad, Chief Executive Oﬃcer , Storebrand Group
Staﬀan Hansen, Managing Director, Customer Area Sweden

Other Participants
Blair Thomson Stewart
Hakon Astrup
Jan Erik Gjerland

Bloomberg Transcript

Peter Eliot
Roy Tilley
Ulrik Ardal Zurcher
Vegard Toverud

Presentation
Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Karin Greve-Isdahl and I'm the Executive Vice
President for Communication and Sustainability at Storebrand.
On behalf of the group executive team, I will have the honor of guiding you through our
very ﬁrst digital Capital Markets Day. It has been an extraordinary year in many ways. Our
customers and organization have demonstrated a great deal of ﬂexibility as we have
adapted to new ways of working during the pandemic.
Today, we hope to give you the update and answers you are looking for, but in a diﬀerent
way than we've done before. We will have six speakers, who will give you an update from
their respective areas. In total, the presentation should take around 90 minutes. Then we
will have a short break before we open the microphone for questions. If you would like to

Page 1 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

ask the management team questions, please join the Zoom link as explained on our
website storebrand.no/investorrelations [ph].
Now with the practicalities out of the way, let me introduce you to the ﬁrst speaker of the
day. Odd Arild Grefstad has been with Storebrand for some 26 years in various leadership
roles. He took over as the CEO in 2012 on a day when the Storebrand stock traded at
NOK17. As you all know, the value creation since then has been substantial. Now Odd
Arild will give you an update on our strategic priorities going forward as well as the longterm ﬁnancial targets we have set for the group.
Odd Arild, I'll hand it over to you.

Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Karin. It's a pleasure for me to welcome you to our Capital Markets Day 2020.
Although held digitally, we still appreciate that you will follow us for the next hour and a
half. Let me start by taking you quickly through a couple of reﬂections on the context we
operate in. Storebrand has roots back to the start of the ﬁnancial system in the region and
as the ﬁrst insurance company pioneering both P&C and life insurance.
When I think about the company, I was chosen to lead as a CEO in 2012, the company
appears completely changed today. Lower interest rates, regulatory changes, change in
customer preferences and technology has led to a material change in the business model.
We have followed an active and consistent strategy with a strong ability to shift our
business mix towards capital-light savings and insurance products, replacing guaranteed
business. The top management team at Storebrand are more than motivated to continue
this journey and will together tell you more about the strategic direction of the company,
the way we see it for the next years.
We will tell a story of compelling combination of self-funded savings and insurance
growth and capital return for shareholders, but we will also tell how we add value beyond
return for customers by being one of the world's most sustainable ﬁnancial group. We
hold strong positions in the Nordic savings and insurance market with our 29% market
share in occupational pension in Norway and an increasingly strong position in Sweden
with 18% market share. Storebrand Asset Management is the largest private asset
manager in Norway and number ﬁve in the Nordics.
Our asset management business has multiple times been recognized and awarded for its
commitment and work within sustainable investments. In the Nordic retail market,
Storebrand is a challenger, where we build on our strong position and growth in
occupational pension and asset management. In retail savings, we have a 14% market
share. We are a fast-growing challenger in the proﬁtable Norwegian insurance market
with today a 4% market share. With savings, insurance, and our digital-only retail bank, we
cover the full range of customer needs on our digital platform. This is important in a
market with a lot of one-stop shoppers and where 70% of savings, up to now, goes into a
bank account.

Page 2 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

Before we dive deeper into the strategy and the road ahead, let me quickly go through
some of the factors that make the Nordics a particular strong and robust area to operate
in. Growth in Norway and Sweden has exceeded the G7 average over the past 10 years.
The absurd economic resilience during stress is partly explained by a uniquely strong
ﬁscal position build up over years of surpluses. Norway is in a league of its own with the
pension fund, but also Sweden has lower net government debt than both the eurozone
and the U.S. Labor markets are stable the with low unemployment.
And with that positive macro backdrop, let me now show how we have delivered value.
Storebrand is recognized as a world leader when it comes to sustainable investments. We
are proud of the fact that we are included in the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability
Index, an index including only the world's most sustainable companies. We strongly
believe sustainable investments give more value for our customers. Understanding and
integrating sustainability into investment strategies reduces risk, while at the same time,
pushing the world in the right direction. This is a win, win situation and this is not the time
to be on the wrong side of history.

Bloomberg Transcript

Even though most of the organization has been working from their home oﬃces in 2020,
the organization has run smoothly. Our employee engagement score has increased to a
record high of 8.3, outperforming the benchmark of our industry of 7.8. These factors has
contributed to Storebrand's number one position on the Young Professional Attraction
Index within the ﬁnancial sector for 2020. Storebrand is an attractive employer and we
have taken the opportunity to recruit top tech talents during the year.
When it comes to the numbers, we have delivered strong growth in savings and insurance
over the last eight years. With a 19% annual growth in unit linked and almost 10% annual
growth in assets under management, we see a clear shift in Storebrand's premiums,
earnings, and balance sheet as capital-light savings and insurance products are replacing
guaranteed products. In Storebrand, we have fueled this shift by active reduction of
guaranteed pension combined with a strong growth in the Savings and Insurance
segments. We see that around half of our earnings now can be linked to our Savings
segment. Eight years ago, this area just contributed to 15% of then signiﬁcant lower
earnings.
Looking back to our Capital Markets Day in 2018, we stated this set of ambitious
operational targets. And I am very proud to say that we deliver. We deliver on ﬂat costs,
growth in occupational pension, number one Norwegian asset manager, and we have
built a strong and proﬁtable retail engine for further growth and proﬁtability. Storebrand
continues to follow a twofold strategy that gives a compelling combination of self-funded
growth in the front book and capital return from a maturing guaranteed back book. But
we make some adjustments to the strategy and the wordings. The front book of
Storebrand -- of future Storebrand is divided into three focus areas. In 2023, these areas
should deliver around NOK4 billion of proﬁts.
Let me start with, A, occupational pension. We aim to be the leading provider of
occupational pension in both Norway and Sweden. And we will, B, continue our strategy
to build a Nordic powerhouse in asset management. And C, ensure fast growth in the
Norwegian retail market for ﬁnancial services. Staﬀan, Geir, Jan Erik, and Heidi will present
Page 3 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

their ambition to deliver customer value and growth leading to roughly NOK1 billion each
in proﬁts in three years' time. The only way to ensure a better future is to take part in
creating it. That's why we have coined this year's Capital Markets Day on the right side of
history to showcase why we ﬁrmly believe in sustainability as a diﬀerentiator.
Our digital leadership and technology platform also represent a strategic diﬀerentiator
well-suited to accelerate further growth. Second, we will continue to manage capital and
back book with guaranteed products for increased shareholder return. This includes
following a clear dividend policy of growing ordinary dividends and it includes managing
the legacy products that carry interest rate guarantees in a capital-eﬃcient manner to
release NOK10 billion of capital towards 2030.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now describe our strategic response along these growth areas. Storebrand's core
product during the last years' deﬁned contribution pension is expected to continue its
double-digit growth in assets under management. In Norway, the market has experienced
increased competition the last years in anticipation of the new individual pension account.
Storebrand's strategic response to the market development is to focus on cost leadership
and improved customer experience by accelerated end-to-end digitalization. To further
strengthen our position as a leading Norwegian pension provider and to continue our
growth, Storebrand this year re-entered the public occupational pension market.
In Sweden, the market is more mature than in Norway, but more also dynamic due to the
high activity in the transfer market. SPP has managed to gain market share and grown
faster than the market by winning this transfer market. The underlying market is expected
to grow 8% annually. SPP is the market leader in the transfer market with 25% of the
transfer in 2020. With new digital sales tools and high customer satisfaction, we will
continue double-digit growth by winning the transfer market.
Our starting point in asset management is the group internal capital base with the ability
to invest for the long-term and support growth. We are recognized for pushing the
boundaries of sustainable investment and engagement, and we have the full product
range including a fast growing oﬀering within alternatives. We have used our strength to
build a strong multi-boutique franchise.
Going forward, this position will be leveraged further to ensure that become a Nordic
powerhouse for institutional clients and an international provider of diﬀerentiated
solutions within sustainability and alternatives. The individualization of the pension and
savings market leads to a shift in the business logic from a corporate market towards a
retail market. The push towards individualization of the market will be further
strengthened by the introduction of the individual pension account next year. Coming
from corporate pension and asset management, we have both systems and solutions that
ﬁt well into retail savings and insurance oﬀerings.
To oﬀer individuals digital one-stop shop and build strong integrated value propositions,
we include products from our retail bank, which also enables cross-selling. 1.3 million
individuals are customers in Storebrand in Norway through their employment. And our
brand name stands strong in the society. This is our main go-to-market strategy. Retail has

Page 4 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

become an increasingly large part of the Storebrand's portfolio. In 2019, 22% of the group
proﬁt came from retail. We expect this to continue with high growth ambitions. In 2023,
we plan that 27% of the proﬁt will be from retail.
I will now talk about how sustainability and digital are strategic diﬀerentiators for the
group. For the last 25 years, we have been the leading player in developing sustainable
investments to ensure increased customer value. We call it value beyond return. Our
leadership in sustainability is a foundation for value creation for all stakeholders and can
be divided into the following characteristics.
Our sustainable position has given us high recognition and improved brand reputation.
This position has developed to be a diﬀerentiator and are today a signiﬁcant part of our
oﬀering. Because of Storebrand's position and purpose, our employees take great pride
in being a part of the company as seen by the high engagement scores. It also attracts an
increasing number of international top talents.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, we are convinced that sustainable investments create the best risk-adjusted
return over time for customers. The world is moving into a low-emission society. We
believe that a robust and well proven sustainable framework is crucial to navigate through
transition risk. We report top performance and asset growth in our sustainable funds this
year.
Lastly, we are committed to continue our holistic approach and work for a brighter future
for our customers today and when they reach retirement. We use our impact and position
actively to push the sustainable agenda. We are conﬁdent that the only way to ensure a
better future is to be a part of creating it. We stand committed and aim for Paris
Alignment throughout the entire value chain and we are determined to lead the
sustainable agenda in the coming years, ensuring value creation for all stakeholders.
Then moving to technology and digital. Storebrand does not sell any tangible [ph] goods.
Our market oﬀerings are ﬁnancial products, services, and customer experience. The
engine that brings this to life is our technology platform. Building on our strong
foundation, we have already successfully adapted to our digital business model. Going
forward, we will focus on a set of key strategic technology enablers to grow the business
and further strengthen our competitiveness.
Smart use of data paves the way for new business opportunities and eﬃciency gains
through digitalization and automation. Storebrand is underway for a full-scale cloud
adoption to enforce -- to enable faster time-to-market and access to new capabilities. The
last three years, we have seen an annual growth in digital sales of 25%.
Going forward, we will continue our focus on elevating customer experience. In addition,
we will take a more active approach to the development of and a participation in
platforms and ecosystems as their importance as distribution arenas are rapidly
increasing. Our operational ambitions toward 2023 are clear. We will continue to be a
market leader in Norway and add more than NOK15 billion of assets under management
from the public sector.
Page 5 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

We will continue the double-digit premium growth from SPP and ensure remittance ratio
far higher than annual results due to the rapid change in the business mix. In asset
management, we target to increase assets under management by NOK250 billion. The
retail area should deliver double-digit growth for insurance with a combined ratio of 92%
or better. In total, this should add up to roughly NOK4 billion in proﬁts in 2023. Our CFO,
Lars Loddesol, will revert with more details and sensitivities. We have now been through
the growth strategies, our strategic diﬀerentiators and operational targets.
Let me now turn to the capital side of the strategy. When it comes to capital, this slide says
it all. This picture gives an overview of earnings, capital allocation, and return on equity at
the end of 2019 split between future Storebrand, which is the Insurance and Savings
business, and the guaranteed segment in runoﬀ. As you see from this table, the capitallight savings including bank and insurance business is very proﬁtable and provides a high
return on equity, while the guaranteed business ties up more than 75% of the capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

We still expect to beat our return on equity target within the growth segments with a
good margin. It is obvious that continued growth is the name of the game for the
proﬁtable future Storebrand. The heavy capital consumption within guaranteed makes
capital release the core team for this segment. Lower interest rate has made the drag on
the return of equity more pronounced, but the runoﬀ will still free up more than NOK10
billion of capital.
A continued strategy, with runoﬀ of capital-heavy guaranteed business and growth in the
Savings and Insurance segment, will lead to increased earnings and reduced capital
need, which will secure a very positive development in return of equity over time. We
expect to start delivering above 10% return on equity at the end of 2023. We, the Board
and the management, remain extremely committed to paying dividends.
We will annually pay a growing dividend from our earnings generation as long as the
solvency ratio is above 150%. We reiterate our prognosis, indicating that NOK10 billion
will be released from the back book and that we'll likely start buybacks by 2023. And as
Lars will revert to, we will reassess the needed buﬀer level to the solvency capital
requirement over time as the business mix shifts. This means an even more capitaleﬃcient group over time.
Our ﬁnancial target stands ﬁrm. We deliver on solvency. When it comes to dividend,
ordinary dividend was paid in 2019. In 2020, the payment was cancelled due to regulatory
intervention. We remain committed to pay ordinary dividends in 2021 and onwards. We
deliver on return on equity in our front book with a conﬁdent margin, but not on capital
tied up to support the back book. We, therefore, need to continue the shift in the
business mix and we expect to meet the overall return on equity target in 2023.
Let me ﬁnish with three key takeaways for the day. Storebrand is growing and expect to
deliver a group proﬁt of approximately NOK4 billion in 2023. Storebrand will get back to
paying dividends in 2021 and expect NOK10 billion of capital to be freed up as the
guaranteed liabilities are paid out. Finally, this is not the time to be on the wrong side of

Page 6 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

history. We will uncompromisingly be setting the standard and aim to be the world's most
sustainable ﬁnancial group.
With that bold statement, I give the word back to Karin.

FINAL

Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Odd Arild. In 2008, Storebrand acquired the Swedish life insurance
and pension company, SPP. The ambition then was to create the leading life insurance
and pension provider in the Nordic region. Today, some 12 years later, SPP has indeed
growing into becoming one of the key business units within the Storebrand Group. Our
next speaker will explain how SPP will leverage its digital leadership to deliver doubledigit growth in actively sold savings. Executive Vice President, Staﬀan Hansen, will join us
by video from Sweden.
Over to you Staﬀan.

Staﬀan Hansen

{BIO 3335278 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your introduction, Karin, and good afternoon to all from Stockholm. Let me
start with the key takeaways from SPP. One, SPP has become a signiﬁcant result
contributor to the Storebrand Group driven by earnings growth and ongoing capital
release. Two, growth is expected to continue, driven by an edge in digital solutions and a
strong market position. The quality of earnings has considerably improved over the past
years.
As you can see in the graph to the left, assets in unit linked have grown by an annual rate
of 12%. The middle graph shows that core earnings have improved by an annual rate of
14%, while the graph to the right shows that nominal costs have been reduced by 9%.
Simultaneously, the graph to the left shows that old guaranteed savings have peaked
driven by annual pension payments averaging NOK5.4 billion as can be seen in the graph
in the middle.
This has generated NOK3.1 billion in extraordinary dividends to the Storebrand Group, in
excess of the distribution of annual proﬁts as can be seen in the graph to the right. We
expect to continue the capital release over the coming years.
Next, let us move the SPP's core market, which is the competitive market for unit linked
occupational pensions, including gross transfer volumes of individual unit linked policies.
The graph to the left shows that the market has been growing with an annual rate of 7%
over the past years and we anticipate roughly 8% market growth going forward due to
increasing transfer volumes.
The graph to the right shows that SPP has delivered a 20% annual growth over the past
years and that we target a 14% to 16% growth rate over the coming three years, which is
twice the expected market growth. Recalling from the picture illustrating earnings growth,

Page 7 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

this growth has been generated whilst nominal costs have decreased. Thanks to the
growth that has been delivered, SPP's market shares have steadily increased.
SPP is now approaching market leadership in a competitive market for occupational
pensions, including transfers, as can be seen in the graph to the left. The graph in the
middle shows SPP's market share of transfers only. And the graph to the right shows SPP's
growth in terms of annual premium equivalents, excluding transfers. Several portfolio
transfers have added to SPP's growth during 2020. An important enabler for these
portfolio transfers is the competitive edge and scalability of SPP's modern IT platform,
which I will revert to in a minute.
Next, let us shift to the forward-looking perspective. On the quest for market leadership,
SPP's ambition is to become the digital leader in the Swedish pension market and to
continue delivering double-digit growth from steadily higher levels of annual premium
income. Four years ago, SPP decided to invest in a new IT platform.

Bloomberg Transcript

Initially, a cost case, the platform soon allowed for automation of processes and
digitization of the customer end. The strong digital leap forward soon turned out to
become a business diﬀerentiator for SPP, impacting everything from product
development to sales and transforming the ways of working. SPP is now a digital
frontrunner in a digitally mostly immature industry.
The journey has been -- has given SPP several strong advantages. The front end is
digitally linked to the back end, which allows a company to set up and sign a pension
plan with SPP digitally using an iPad. In the same second, as the contract is signed, the
pension plan is established on SPP's IT platform.
This signing tool called Sajna was priced as the digital project of the year in Sweden last
year. SPP's modern platform allows for scalability and the previously mentioned portfolio
transfers would not have been feasible on the old platform. In addition, the platform has
allowed for reduced time to market of services and products. According to our own
estimates, this metric has been reduced by over 30%.
On the quest for growth, the transfer market has been a key pocket of growth for SPP. The
graph to the left shows that 7% of the transfers landed in SPP in 2016, whilst the
corresponding ﬁgure by the end of the third quarter of this year was around 25%. The
addressable market is estimated to around SEK1,300 billion Swedish and the annual
transfer share is only 2% of that pie today.
Through regulatory measures, transfer hurdles are now gradually being removed,
opening up the transfer market. As the graph to the right shows, we target an annual
growth rate exceeding 30% in net transfers to SPP over the coming years providing the
transfer margins remain healthy.
The success in the transfer market rests on three features deﬁning SPP: one, we are
positioned ourselves as the go-to for qualiﬁed advice; two, the go-to for simplicity and

Page 8 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

smoothness; and three, the go-to for sustainable savings, which also is a key driver
behind SPP's brand strength. Sustainable savings is well worth some further elaboration.
Over the past year, we have noticed that sustainability, and especially, the carbon
footprint is becoming more and more important in employer branding and as data input
to company reporting. As a response, we have recently launched Your Carbon Footprint.
This visualizes the company's aggregated carbon footprint of its employees' pension
savings in SPP's mutual funds. Your Carbon Footprint is measured against comparable
savings in mutual funds without sustainability criterias. All SPP's mutual funds are fossil
free since 2019.
Let me ﬁnish by summing up SPP's key ambitions for 2023. Number one, double-digit
growth in premium income. Number two, number one position in unit linked market
share, providing market leadership and proﬁtability go hand-in-hand.
Thank you all for your attention and over to you, again, Karin.

Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

From the Swedish market, let's turn our attention to Norway. Storebrand is the leading
provider of occupational pension in the Norwegian private market.
The potential for further growth in this market is strong as the individual pension account
will increase the awareness among Norwegian's about the importance of their long-term
savings and how they're being managed. We will now hear from the Executive Vice
President, Corporate Markets in Norway, Geir Holmgren.
Geir, please come up.

Geir Holmgren

{BIO 17639172 <GO>}

Thank you, Karin, for the introduction. Today, I will talk about the dynamics and our
ambitions in the corporate market in Norway. In the fast growing and changing
occupational pension market, we aim to keep our number one position and market
leadership.
Next year, private sector occupational pensions will ﬁnally see the introduction of the
individual pension accounts. This year, we have also been through regulatory changes
within public sector as Storebrand has entered this market as a challenger with a broad
product portfolio and clear ambitions.
Today, I will explain to you our strategic thinking when it comes to occupational pension
and also how we aim for proﬁtable growth from expanding our B2B oﬀering. If you look
back at the market for private sector occupational pensions over the last few years, we
clearly see the structural growth in the market, which come from the young nature of the
deﬁned contribution pensions in Norway.
Page 9 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

Occupational pensions became mandatory in 2006 and growth in unit linked-based
pension plans has been tremendous since that time. On an annual basis, the premium
growth has been about 10% during the last ﬁve years and the AUM growth has been more
than 20%. We are slowly seeing the market maturing, but we still expect high-single-digit
growth in premiums and double-digit in AUM.
Next year, there will be stricter follow-up from the authorities regarding some employees'
violation of the mandatory premium payments. The premium increase is expected to be
10% in total. And at a political level, there is an ongoing discussion to increase the
minimum level of mandatory savings, which can increase the premium level with
additional 5% to 10%.
During many years of successful growth, we have built up an attractive value proposition
for our customers. First, Storebrand has cost-eﬀective processes and economies of scales,
which create a basis for an attractive economic value proposition.
Secondly, we oﬀer our customers high-performing ESG-enhanced investment portfolios.
The consulting company, Mercer, has assessed the pension investment portfolios in the
market during the last three years and Storebrand has achieved the highest score each
year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thirdly, Storebrand has market-leading digital pension portals for both employees and
employers, including tools for planning for future retirement and self-service solutions.
And ﬁnally, Storebrand has the most satisﬁed customers in the B2B market over the last 15
years, thanks to our high-quality service, digital solutions, and eﬃcient administration.
Today, Storebrand is providing leading pension and insurance products and services to
Norwegian customers. Storebrand is the only provider with a full range of occupational
pension products across the private and public sector, both markets are fast growing. For
occupational pensions, we believe our scale will be a competitive advantage when
individual pension accounts are introduced next year.
In the public sector market, we are also able to take advantage of our economies of scales
and oﬀer public sector pension at a low marginal cost, enabling us to oﬀer competitive
prices. Our insurance products include mandatory workers' compensation insurance and
other risk covers that provide additional employee beneﬁts for the corporate customers.
I'm happy to say that Storebrand holds a strong position in all diﬀerent product lines.
With the inherent insurance know-how we have, it's a smaller step to oﬀer P&C insurance
to small and medium-sized enterprises. With the acquisition of our portfolio from Insr, a
small Norwegian player, we are already kick starting this new growth area. Our strategic
priorities to maintain leadership and proﬁtability towards 2033 are: ﬁrst, remain number
one and market leader in private sector occupational pension market; second, become a
fast-growing challenger within public sector, occupational pensions; and third, expand
our insurance oﬀering to P&C insurance for small and medium enterprises.

Page 10 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

Individual pension accounts will be established from next year for each employee, with an
active membership within an occupational pension plan. The pension account will be
established at the employers' pension provider.
Let me give you some background information. In Norway, there are two million pension
capital certiﬁcates, which are unit linked-based policies from previous deﬁned
contribution plans. The total AUM value is NOK120 billion. The pension capital certiﬁcates
will, during next year, be included in the individual pension accounts, and for that reason,
also change providers.
We estimate that Storebrand will have a positive net transfer of pension capital of
approximately NOK1 billion due to the change. So what happens with the fees and what
revenue implications will we face in the industry? Due to the regulatory requirement
regarding fees, there will be a reduction in the revenues for all the providers in the
industry.

Bloomberg Transcript

Due to an implementation period throughout 2021, the proﬁt from this business is not
expected to decrease until 2022. And in 2022, we expect that the proﬁt from the
occupational pension business will decrease with approximately NOK100 million, but at
the same time, the proﬁt from other B2B business lines will improve. We expect that our
total proﬁt in the corporate market will be the same in 2021 and 2022 due to proﬁt
improvement from the insurance portfolio.
My key point is, the economic eﬀect for Storebrand, when introducing individual pension
accounts will be moderate and we expect a rather quick result recovery. In addition, which
is important, we have introduced new cost measures, which will improve the result from
occupational pension business with NOK100 million a year in a few years. We expect the
market of long-term savings and pension to merge. Storebrand is well positioned for this
growth and individualization.
With high-performing products and attractive digital solutions, Storebrand has, during the
last years, achieved a close relationship to the employees in occupational pension
schemes. This is an important asset going forward when we work with retaining existing
and attracting new individual customers.
In respect to the implementation of individual pension accounts, the focus has been on
end-to-end digitization, all the way from the core system to the customer interface. The
solutions are cost neutral in terms of volumes, and which is important, this will provide a
valuable cost advantage and business volumes continue to grow. The digital investment is
resulting in unprecedented customer satisfaction and cost leaderships in the years to
come.
As a leading occupational pension provider in the private sector, we have a great starting
point when entering the public sector with our already existing solutions. Together with
large customers in public sector, we have set up a new sustainable investment portfolio,
which includes fossil free investments and extended use of ethical criterias.

Page 11 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

The public sector pension market is large compared to the private sector market, and in
addition, we see a strong premium growth as well, estimated to 10% annually. We have
set our realistic ambition as the aim to gain 1% market share annually, this means NOK5
billion in net AUM inﬂow every year, and our ﬁrst year has shown a breakthrough with
successful business growth.
So what about proﬁtability and solvency implication? There is a signiﬁcant and costeﬃcient reuse of solutions, systems and processes from a business in private sector. The
margins are attractive, so occupational pensions in public sector is proﬁtable and entering
public sector does not dilute the solvency position.
To sum up, the combination of a strong value proposition and a large market with high
growth and attractive margins gives exciting opportunities. Storebrand is the only new
provider that enters this market. Storebrand will achieve capital, customer, and
distribution synergies when entering the B2B P&C insurance market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Storebrand has a strong brand name and a broad and attractive product oﬀering across
pension and insurance. Storebrand gets group capital synergies through diversiﬁcation
due to existing large business volumes in longevity and life insurance risk. We are already
in the market and has got a kick start with the transfer of the insured portfolio and expect
proﬁtability rather quick.
The main ambitions for next year for our business in the corporate markets are: market
leadership within occupational pension throughout the whole period; building up
signiﬁcant business volume in public sector; and ﬁnally, maintain proﬁt level when
entering the new individual pension account market. Thank you.
With that, I give the word back to you, Karin.

Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Geir. Our next speaker is the Executive Vice President of Asset
Management in Storebrand, Jan Erik Saugestad. Storebrand is a leading player in the
Nordic asset management market and a well-known pioneer in sustainable investments.
Storebrand Asset Management currently has more than NOK900 billion under
management. All assets are, of course, managed according to strict sustainability criterias.
Jan Erik will share with you our strategic priorities going forward and explain how we are
well placed to grow the position as a Nordic powerhouse in asset management.
Jan Erik, the ﬂoor is yours.

Jan Erik Saugestad

{BIO 3103298 <GO>}

Thank you, Karin. Ladies and gentlemen, the asset management part of the business has
been through an exciting journey after it was established in the early '90s when the
Page 12 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

investment activities of Storebrand Life was transferred to separate company, also
servicing external clients.

FINAL

I am proud to be part of this journey after I joined in 1999, and in particular, the leadership
we have demonstrated in sustainable investments. In my mind, both management and
investments are about creating value today and make sure future management, and
generations will be able to do the same.
I will take you through the transformation and rise of asset management over the last ﬁve
years, our position today as a modern and sustainable multi-boutique manager and our
future growth strategy as a Nordic powerhouse in asset management. Over the last ﬁve
years, asset management has achieved a very strong growth in AUM from NOK571 billion
to NOK921 billion, more than 60% rise or NOK350 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

The increase in non-captive, institutional and retail account for NOK230 billion of this.
Revenues have grown 13% on average and non-captive revenues now represent 67% of
total revenues. The net ﬂow from captive portfolios are limited. Strong growth in the front
book is partly oﬀset by outﬂow from the back book, the guaranteed portfolios. However,
as mentioned, there is a signiﬁcant and positive net ﬂow from external non-captive clients,
which is a strong enabler for growth.
The importance of asset management in the group has grown and Storebrand Asset
Management is an experienced and diverse organization with 11 diﬀerent nationalities and
an average tenure above nine years. We have an experienced management team and
engaged employees ready to continue the journey. We are now a modern and
sustainable multi-boutique manager, well positioned for further growth.
We cover key asset classes for clients, index, factor, active and private equity, ﬁxed
income, private debt, real state, and infrastructure. The multi-boutique has strong brands
with autonomous and complementary investment strategies. We have gone beyond just
ﬁnancial cross holding and share an eﬃcient and scalable operating platform with joint
investments in technology.
In addition, we have a common Nordic and international distribution. ESG is fully
integrated and there is one group policy for sustainable investments. Storebrand Asset
Management and the multi-boutique is highly recognized by clients. We have made
strong improvements in client's willingness to recommend SAM to others and are
recognized as a leader in sustainable investments internationally by Nordic peers and
clients.
Over the last years, we have new clients in Finland, Iceland, and Denmark and made a
European breakthrough with sustainable solutions. Management has clear strategic
priorities in the coming years to increase the AUM by NOK250 billion and maintain the
revenue margin. The key priorities are end-to-end digitalization, market expansion
outside Norway, keep the recognized number one position in sustainable investing,
continued growth in active and alternative asset classes, and to look for bolt-on
acquisitions for further growth.
Page 13 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

Let us start with the ﬁrst strategic priority. We already have a strong digital foundation and
intend to invest further to make it even more robust, improve quality and reduce risk. This
will help us achieve even greater cost eﬃciency and our ambition is to reduce the
operational cost by 1 basis points as for growth. We do believe that digitalization will also
improve the client experience and help us attract new clients and increase the share of
wallet with existing.
Our second priority is to accelerate the growth in markets outside Norway and grow our
client base and AUM. We want to provide the full range of sustainable solutions in our
multi-boutique. We have already a robust position in Sweden with a branch since 2008,
SPP Fonder is the ﬁfth largest mutual fund in the country and we also have Storebrand
Fastigheter as part of our robust real estate business. Over the last years, we have entered
Denmark with a group listed UCITS funds and a SAM branch.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have established vehicles in Luxembourg, both for SICAV and for UCITS and RAIFs for
alternatives. And we have a base of international clients in private equity in Cubera. With
this structure in place, there are clear opportunities for further growth and we are going to
strengthen our distribution outside Norway. We see strong demand for our products and
sustainable investment solutions, and we are well recognized by investment consultants
and advisers.
The third priority is to keep our number one position in sustainable investments and
continue to provide innovative index solutions and cater for strong active ownership. We
have proven that sustainable investing is both the smart thing to do and the right thing to
do. The only way to ensure a better future is to be part of creating it and we want to help
clients do this. Clients now rank competence on sustainable investing very high when
they select their partners.
We have successfully attracted and shifted capital in the right direction and investments in
solutions now amount to NOK75 billion, fossil free investments NOK320 billion, one-third
of our AUM. After 25 years, we are still young and energized. We continue to push the
boundaries of active ownership and engagement because it is not only about avoiding
companies with a negative impact or investing in companies with solutions. It is also
about changing the companies in the middle.
Climate risk is the biggest crisis known to humanity. We have pushed the boundaries with
our new climate strategy and the lobby criteria we introduced has drawn signiﬁcant
attention. Lobbying against measures to combat climate change is unacceptable, because
it's a necessity that investors, companies, and governments work together to solve the
challenges we face, not only for humanity, but also for prosperity.
We have already lost two-thirds of world population of wild life over the last 50 years and
1 million species are at the brink of extinction. Life on land and at sea is critical to human
survival. We are leading initiatives together with other initiatives [ph] engaging with
governments on deforestation and life in the ocean.

Page 14 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

In this, we often say partnership is the new leadership. Together, we can create action on
the ground. We need a level playing ﬁeld for sustainable business practice. In that way,
market forces will work and even more capital will ﬂow into sustainable solutions and
infrastructure. It is the right thing to do and clearly the smart thing to do.
Moving on to priority number four and asset classes. We are well positioned for the trend
in alternatives. Through Cubera, we are the Nordic gateway to private equity, oﬀering
Nordic primary and secondary strategies and international primary strategies with new
fund launches, driving growth beyond today's NOK35 billion commitments.
In real estate, Storebrand is an experienced and well recognized manager with a ﬁve-star
sustainability rating and 48% BREEAM certiﬁed properties and investment vehicles in
Norway, Sweden and in Luxembourg.
In infrastructure, we recently announced a major partnership with highly reputed pension
funds in Denmark with a total joint commitment of up to NOK45 billion. In private debt,
we continue to help pension funds co-invest with NOK40 billion captive portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

In total, we intend to grow alternatives with NOK30 billion in commitments over the next
three years. Even though it's not growing, there is still a signiﬁcant revenue pool in
actively managed solutions. A well-executed investment process, strong talent and team
is important.
In addition, with our robust multi-boutique, we have the ﬁnancial capacity to run focused
teams. We have strong ESG research expertise, experience of sophisticated risk
management from captive management, and capacity to support cross learning and deep
forensic analysis by independent in-house team.
Over time, the growth in active equity and alternatives as part of our AUM has been
substantial and currently amount to NOK214 billion. We have been successful in
improving the revenue margin through this growth and our ambition is to maintain this
margin going forward.
Our ﬁfth priority is to focus on selected bolt-on acquisitions. In addition to the successful
establishment of SPP Fonder, we have recently completed two important acquisitions.
With SKAGEN, we got a number of signiﬁcant strategic beneﬁts. It contributed to an
improved joint asset management platform, enabled international expansion, and
strengthen our position in the mutual fund retail market. In total, there has been
signiﬁcant larger group synergies than we anticipated and the original Skagen unit holder
system is now a group system.
With Cubera, we now provide a full range of private equity oﬀering to Nordic clients, we
were not able to earlier. We are a strong gateway to the Nordics for international clients
and the acquisition has been a success above our expectations. I'm proud of the team
and how they impressively have raised NOK12 billion since the acquisition. With the
management expertise of M&A and further need for consolidation in asset management,

Page 15 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

Storebrand has publicly announced our strategy to look at opportunities to further grow
through bolt-on acquisitions.

FINAL

Our focus is in three diﬀerent areas. First, we are looking for opportunities to consolidate
conventional asset management further and to assess complementary products, markets
and client segments, there is clear potential for synergies by scaling our multi-boutique
platform.
Second, we are keen to grow further in alternatives and the success of private equity and
Cubera has demonstrated the beneﬁts we can create for clients and shareholders with this
type of acquisition. We are seeking opportunities in real estate, infrastructure, and private
debt. Finally, we search for opportunities to assess new technology for eﬃciency and
improved client experience. The ﬁntech treasure of SKAGEN was an example of this.
To conclude and sum up where the ﬁve strategic priorities will take us. Our key ambitions
for 2023 are, given normal market conditions, an AUM growth of NOK250 billion, to
maintain our revenue margin at current level and continue to be recognized for our
leadership in sustainable investments and provide value beyond return.
Thank you very much for your attention. And with this, I hand back to you, Karin.

Bloomberg Transcript

Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Jan Erik. From asset management to the retail, Storebrand is a fastgrowing challenger in the Norwegian retail market. We can oﬀer our customers a fullﬂedged oﬀering of products and services from banking to savings and insurance. We are
a digital-only player with no physical branches and customer satisfaction and loyalty
remain record high.
Executive Vice President, Heidi Skaaret, will now give you an insight into how we combine
our strong digital capacities and strategic partnership to forge ahead in the retail market.
Please welcome to the stage, Heidi.

Heidi Skaaret

{BIO 17065401 <GO>}

Thank you, Karin, and good afternoon, everybody. The retail market in Norway is
increasingly important as an engine for growth and proﬁtability for Storebrand.
Storebrand is a challenger in this proﬁtable market, building on group strengths and
synergies. With the digital-ﬁrst strategy, we oﬀer data-driven, tailored solutions to
customer segments where we have an advantage.
So in the following, I will outline our strategy, and how we will generate results in the years
to come. The Norwegian retail market is attractive. We have a wealthy, well-educated and
digitally mature population. The proﬁt pool is substantial with healthy margins.
Storebrand is well positioned for proﬁtable growth in this market, capitalizing on group
strengths and synergies.

Page 16 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

We are the market leader in occupational pension, with 1.3 million individuals as
customers. We have a strong brand. We're the leading asset manager in Norway, and we
have capital synergies in mortgages and insurance as well as a leading position as one of
the world's most sustainable companies, attracting customers, partners and top talent.
As you can see, we are a challenger in this market, with a fairly strong position in unit
linked pension savings and personal life insurance, whereas in banking, mutual funds and
P&C insurance, we have considerable opportunities for growth with larger -- with lower
market shares today.
Storebrand's job is to provide ﬁnancial security and freedom to our customers. Through
our extensive product lines in banking, savings and insurance, we can oﬀer a full range of
products to the Norwegian consumer. We recruit and retain customers through members
of our occupational pension schemes through partners, and the general ﬂow of
customers who prefer Storebrand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Through a segmented approach to the aﬄuent as well as the mass market, we oﬀer
tailored solutions towards speciﬁc target groups to meet customer needs. We have a
digital-ﬁrst strategy and address the market leveraging strong capabilities in data-driven
customer development, supported by individualized customer journeys.
In our reporting, you will ﬁnd the revenue and proﬁts from the retail market accounted for
in our main segments, savings and insurance. Insurance includes P&C insurance and
personal life insurance. Savings includes the retail bank as well as unit linked mutual
funds. All pension and investment advisory is now run from the retail bank. But it is
important to note that the revenue is not booked in the bank, only a cost compensation.
The same is true for insurance cross sales. This makes the value creation from the bank
substantially larger than what you can read from the P&L of Storebrand bank stand-alone
as the bank is a very important driver for cross-sales in the retail market. Retail is a
signiﬁcant driver of topline growth in Storebrand, driven by increased number of
customers and volumes in all product categories.
Our growth has accelerated in the last two years, and we expect this development to
continue with double-digit CAGR in all product areas going forward. We expect the
strongest growth in P&C insurance, where the acquisition of the Insr portfolio has started
to add volumes from this month already. To achieve our growth targets, we have
improved our internal sales eﬃciency and rapidly increased digital sales. In addition, we
have added physical distribution capacity for our insurance oﬀerings through tied agents.
To ensure sustainable, proﬁtable growth in the years to come, our key priorities are: to
develop value propositions tailored to segment needs through data analytics and
individualized customer journeys; and to capitalize on strong digital capabilities and
attractive customer solutions to support scalable growth; and lastly, to leverage
partnerships and explore new business models for increased distribution power.

Page 17 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

The ﬁnancial services industry has a long history of pushing products. Based on our
experience and customer insights, our approach is to provide holistic value oﬀerings
designed to solve speciﬁc problems for the customer. One example is what we call Smart
Pension 55 Plus.
This is a service that helps customer approaching retirement to set up an individual
pension plan that takes care of most ﬁnancial needs for a safe and happy life as a
pensioner. We delivered this as a digital service, supported by our pension advisers. It has
been a very well received service in the market, solving a much-needed job to be done.
Another example is our wealth management concept. Here we draw on Storebrand's
extensive oﬀering of leading investment options, supported by professional advisory
service as well as banking and insurance solutions tailored to the aﬄuent customer. Over
the years, we have invested in digital solutions and services to ensure great customer
experiences as well as eﬃcient and data-driven distribution.
We see a rapid and accelerating move towards digital sales in all areas. One example is
My Money [ph], an app for pension, bank and mutual fund savings that we launched this
fall. We already have more than 100,000 individual customers in the app. Going forward,
it will be a platform for customer engagement and sales of savings and insurance-related
products.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our new digital claims solution has digitalized the whole claims process and is now
realizing improved satisfaction and reduced claims handling cost. In the same way, our
digital loan process is improving eﬃciency in the bank.
To enable us to deliver outstanding customer experiences and increased distribution
eﬃciency, we are in the process of rolling out a full stack of the sales force CRM platform
for ﬁnancial services. Our insurance operation is already on the system, and the rest of the
retail organization within banking and savings will follow in 2021.
With our strong brand and solid reputation, we are an attractive partner for leading
national consumer organizations. Our strategy is to have strong strategic partnerships
with a few of these. The partnerships are built on a win-win value proposition and with
incentives that ensure mutual value creation and success.
This year, we have entered into two large new partnerships. Huseierne is the Norwegian
Homeowners' Association, where we have a partnership in banking and insurance. And
Coop, the leading Norwegian retailer, with which we have a co-branded insurance
oﬀering for Coop's customer loyalty program of 1.8 million members. Akademikerne
Pluss, the union for people with an academic education, has been an important partner
for insurance since 2015.
We also explore a host of new business opportunities through partners. One example is a
ﬁntech company, Dreams, where we provide the underlying products, and they develop
the customer interface. We provide both the savings account and consumer loans
through the Dreams partnership.
Page 18 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

With Finn, the leading digital classiﬁed platform, we are integrated into their used car
sales process. Finn delivers a service that takes care of contracts, secure payments, et
cetera, while Storebrand provides the insurance. With Justify, we integrate their legal
service into our concepts. For example, Smart Pension that I just mentioned.
Building on the strong momentum, we have set ambitious growth targets for the next
years. Our insurance business is experiencing strong double-digit growth and will
continue, with a target combined ratio of less than 92%.
Within retail savings, we will have double-digit growth, and Storebrand is well positioned
to be the preferred savings partner for the Norwegian population through their individual
pension accounts. For a retail bank, we are targeting double-digit growth of our
mortgage book, emphasizing the important role for the bank as a driver for cross sales.
All in all, this will provide strengthened growth and proﬁtability in the years to come with
the retail market being a solid contributor to the overall group result.
Thank you for your attention. And over to you, Karin.

Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. Our last speaker of the day is our CFO, Lars Loddesol. Lars has
been the CFO of Storebrand for nine years. Always the man with an eye for the numbers,
Lars will now deep dive into our compelling combination of self-funded growth in the
front book, together with our plans for capital release from the guaranteed back book, a
topic I know might be of special interest to some of you.
Lars, the ﬂoor is yours.

Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Thank you, Karin, and good afternoon to everyone. You have now heard ﬁve enthusiastic
presentations on how we aim to continue to grow a healthy and proﬁtable Storebrand. My
presentation aims to pull it all together to explain what this means for proﬁtability and
solvency, and how it will generate growing returns to our shareholders.
With this presentation, I want to leave you with the following: one, earnings growth will
bring group proﬁt to NOK4 billion in 2023; strong cash generation and liquidity ensure
ordinary dividend growth; high-quality investments and solid customer buﬀers secure
customer returns and protect shareholders' equity; Storebrand has a long solvency -strong solvency position and sound capital generation; and the runoﬀ of the guaranteed
book is estimated to release around NOK10 billion by 2030.
Let's start with the group proﬁt. You have heard four business managers describing their
plans for the next three years. The business areas are of similar size, and they all aim to
deliver a group result of around NOK1 billion each. Put together, and calibrated into the
way we present our ﬁgures, this leads to a group proﬁt before amortization and tax of

Page 19 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

NOK4 billion in 2023, of which the majority of the growth comes in savings from our unit
linked business, our asset management business and the retail bank.
Also, the insurance results grow strongly, whilst the proﬁts from the runoﬀ guaranteed
business is expected to stay relatively robust for the next three years. Here, we show you a
bridge from today's proﬁt and loss statement to the NOK4 billion ambition for 2023. It's
an ambitious plan, but it builds on empirical and expected growth and concrete business
plans.
It's clearly dependent on our ability to achieve the targeted growth and our ability to
maintain reasonable margins. The main takeaway is that we expect to be able to more
than compensate margin pressures with strict cost control and strong growth. There are,
of course, factors outside of the group's control that may aﬀect the result generation.
Lower interest rates and market volatility may have result eﬀects. Higher interest rates will
lead to substantially higher results over time. Regulatory changes may aﬀect Storebrand.
Changes in the Solvency II standard model and IFRS 17 may have an impact, although it's
too early to have any concrete guidance on this for the time being.

Bloomberg Transcript

Since Odd Arild took the helm as group CEO of Storebrand in 2012, Storebrand has kept
cost nominally ﬂat for eight years, only adjusted for acquired business. This is a real cost
saving of more than 20%, whilst the group has more than doubled its assets under
management in the same period.
Looking into next year, we will continue to cut underlying costs. The acquisition of the Insr
portfolio and the corresponding P&C growth will add approximately NOK200 million in
cost. Furthermore, we are accelerating our investment in digital to further reduce
operating costs and to increase sales. We are close to ﬁnishing the digital transition in
Sweden on time and within budget.
We are now making additional digital investments in: A, Norwegian occupational
pensions to maintain our cost leadership; and B, our asset management platform for
further scalability and end-to-end eﬃciency. If our growth and proﬁtability ambitions are
not realized along the way, we have identiﬁed a list of measures to reduce the cost base
accordingly.
The group uses capital for ﬁnancial risk, insurance risk and operational risk. Our task is to
use that capital in the most eﬃcient manner. As described in this picture, most of our
capital requirements come from ﬁnancial market risk. The Solvency II capital regime
rewards diversiﬁcation. Given our business mix, diversiﬁcation from insurance risk is
desirable.
That is part of the reason why we have grown the P&C business in the last few years, and
why we are now accelerating this growth with partnerships and the acquisition of the Insr
portfolio as well as entering into the SME or small business in (Technical Diﬃculty). Odd
Arild has shown you a picture describing the return on equity in the back book and the

Page 20 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

front book. Here is a slightly more granular picture, splitting the front book into our
reporting segments, savings and insurance.
As you can see, the front book does not require a lot of capital. On a normalized basis,
the return on equity will remain well above 20% in both segments in the foreseeable
future. We will start to report on this on a regular basis. Clearly, our most important
objectives are to grow the earnings in savings and insurance and to increase capital tied -sorry, release capital tied up in guaranteed for a sustainable group return on equity well
above 10%.
With NOK4 billion in group proﬁt in 2023, combined with growing ordinary dividends
according to our dividend policy, we are on the road to achieve our ﬁnancial target of 10%
return on equity in 2023. As the back book runs oﬀ, and excess capital can be released,
combined with proﬁt growth in the front book, we will have a growing normalized return
on equity in the following years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now move from IFRS results to cash generation and dividends. All of the Storebrand
earnings are close to cash. Actually, if we look at the 2019 numbers, you will see that the
remittance ratio was above 100%. This means that Storebrand will be more than able to
pay ordinary dividends from normal subsidiary remittance.
In addition, the holding company has signiﬁcantly strengthened its liquidity reserves in
the last few years through a combination of subsidiary dividends and the COVID-related
regulatory cancellation of group proﬁt -- group dividend for 2019. This means that even
with negative events hurting subsidiary remittance in any single year, cash reserves at the
holding company level are more than adequate to ensure ordinary dividend payments.
Now let's move to the guaranteed business, and how the buﬀers built over -- built up over
many years, combined with high-quality investments, support customer returns and
protects shareholders. The guaranteed back book is in runoﬀ. The premium payments are
signiﬁcantly down. The age distribution amongst policyholders means that most
individuals are, or will soon be, receiving pension payments from the guaranteed
liabilities. And the highly predictable outﬂow is more than NOK50 billion in the next ﬁve
years. In addition, the average guarantee on the liabilities is falling, and the remaining
duration goes down.
This picture is familiar to many of you. It was presented as part of our last Capital Markets
Day in 2018. It shows the long tail of the guaranteed business, but also how all of our
growth is capital-light, and how the guaranteed business becomes a smaller part of the
total every year. Whilst still a drag on our short-term capital requirements and return on
equity, the guaranteed business is on the road to insigniﬁcance and will release a
signiﬁcant amount of capital in the years to come.
Storebrand runs a high-quality investment portfolio with diversiﬁed assets. The majority of
the investments are in a robust bond portfolio, with an average rating of AA. We have had
limited rating migration and no defaults in the portfolio through the COVID period.

Page 21 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

Despite the low interest rate environment, Storebrand generates an expected return
above the guaranteed rate of return on our liabilities.

FINAL

If mark-to-market return in any single year is below the guaranteed rate of return, we have
healthy buﬀers to ensure a satisfactory booked return. As previously communicated, with
today's rates and investments as well as normal risk premiums in the market, Storebrand
will not only maintain our buﬀers, but further build them in the next 10 years.
And now let me move on to how the growth in the capital-light part of the business and
the runoﬀ of the guaranteed portfolio translates into solvency and capital generation. As
communicated at our Capital Markets Day in 2018, Storebrand generates approximately
10 percentage points of solvency from operations, net of capital needed for organic
growth. In addition, we now start to release capital from the capital-heavy guaranteed
back book.

Bloomberg Transcript

After paying an ordinary dividend of ﬁve to six percentage points, we will, on a
normalized basis, build six to seven percentage points of solvency each year. This
solvency generation compensates for the runoﬀ of transitional capital, which, under
Norwegian rules, is likely to be phased out over the next three to ﬁve years and ensures a
relatively stable regulatory capital in the coming years.
Today's solvency, without transitional capital, is around 160% after the recent increase in
Norwegian and Swedish interest rates. Through the ongoing organic capital generation,
and supported by measures under our control, which I will revert to, we expect to reach
180% without the use of transitional capital by 2023. The solvency of 179% at the end of
the third quarter is resilient to changes in ﬁnancial markets.
If rates fall, we get more transitional capital. And if rates increase, we get less. This is the
nature, and indeed, the purpose of the transitional capital rules under Solvency II.
Similarly, volatility adjustment will partly compensate for changes in credit spreads. Also,
the equity stress changes under the Solvency II framework limit the solvency impact from
equity market developments.
What we have dubbed the front book or future Storebrand contains low volatility
business, with less market risk and little risk for shareholders. It means that the business
needs a lower buﬀer to the capital requirement, typically between 40% to 60% above the
regulatory requirement.
Today, we have a target solvency buﬀer between 50% to 80% above the capital
requirement. This target reﬂects that the more volatile guaranteed book needs a larger
buﬀer to the minimum requirement. As the guaranteed book runs oﬀ and future
Storebrand grows, the risk in the overall business will be reduced and the target buﬀer
level will go down. This is an important point because it creates even more certainty for
future capital release for shareholders.
Storebrand has developed a strong solvency model and a toolbox for the future. There is
a constant trade-oﬀ between solvency today and solvency creation over time. More risk in
Page 22 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

the investment portfolios increases expected solvency generation, but hurts short-term
solvency and vice versa.
Storebrand has a strong balance sheet and signiﬁcantly lower leverage than many of our
peers. According to the rating agency, Standard & Poor's, our capitalization is in the AA
range. That means that we have room to issue more subordinated debt, but it does come
at a cost. Also, we currently have very little lapse risk -- sorry, lapse risk reinsurance in
Norway.
This is a risk, which is exaggerated when applied to our business in the Scandinavian
markets and that can be reinsured at a limited cost. In addition, we can hedge more of the
volatility in the business through diﬀerent kind of derivatives. We estimate that we will
make use of measures totaling around 10 percentage points of solvency improvements in
the next three years.
Last but not least, Storebrand is developing an internal model for solvency capital
requirements. The timing for approval of the model is still a few years away. But the model
helps us improve risk management and will, over time, ensure that the solvency capital
requirements better address the actual risk in our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

With the combination of today's balance sheet, the capital generation from the existing
business as well as the toolbox for solvency, we are conﬁdent to be able to get to 180%
solvency without transitional capital by 2023. If the trend of increasing rates continues, we
will get there earlier. And reaching 180% solvency without signiﬁcant use of transitional
capital means returning excess capital to shareholders.
Our base case is that we will release capital from the back book in the form of share
buybacks starting in 2023 and amounting to NOK10 billion by 2030. If rates continue to
go up, the capital return will come earlier and more capital will be released before 2030.
If rates fall, it may be delayed, but it will still happen.
Our capital management policy remains unchanged. We have, however, chosen to
emphasize that excess capital release will come when solvency is above 180% without
material use of transitional capital. This clariﬁcation has been included in order to avoid a
discussion on distribution of excess capital in a technical situation where a signiﬁcant part
of the solvency comes from temporary transitional capital. This is to conﬁrm that
Storebrand is extremely committed to, again, pay ordinary dividends from next year when
we have put this very special COVID year behind us.
In summary, we continue to manage Storebrand for increased proﬁtability, solid solvency
and increasing shareholder returns. We maintain our ﬁnancial targets. The return on
equity target of 10% is a benchmark for all new investments. On a group basis, it will be
challenging to reach a return on equity of 10% in the next two years. But with our stated
ambition for a group result of NOK4 billion, we will reach 10% return on equity in 2023.
And as the return of excess capital starts, and the growth of the front book continues, the
return on equity will go up further.

Page 23 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

Finally, I would like to sum up the Storebrand strategy. Storebrand continues to follow a
twofold strategy that gives a compelling combination of self-funded growth in the front
book and capital return from a maturing guaranteed back book. We said at the start that
the only way to ensure a better future is to be part of creating it. That's why we have
coined this year's Capital Markets Day on the right side of history. We ﬁrmly believe that
Storebrand is well positioned to deliver sustainable value for our customers,
shareholders, and the world around us.
And with that, I give the word back to you, Karin.

Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Lars. That was the end of our presentations. We will now take a few
minutes break before we open the microphone for live Q&A with CEO, Odd Arild
Grefstad; and CFO, Lars Loddesol.
On behalf of the Storebrand Group, I would like to thank you all for your time. My
colleague, Daniel Sundahl, with Investor Relations, will guide you through the Q&A in a
few minutes. Have a good afternoon, everybody.
(Audio-Video Presentation)

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
A - Karin Greve-Isdahl

{BIO 20243217 <GO>}

(Question And Answer)

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, we are now opening up for questions from the audience. To
answer your questions, we have CFO, Lars Loddesol; CEO, Odd Arild Grefstad; Group
Head of Strategy & Finance, Kjetil Krokje; and as for myself, my name is Daniel Sundahl,
I'm Head of Investor Relations, and I will moderate this session. (Operator Instructions)
With that, we'll take the ﬁrst question, and that question comes from Peter Eliot at Kepler
Cheuvreux. Peter Eliot, please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I hope it's okay to ask three questions. The ﬁrst one was just how
we should think about the uses of the NOK10 billion of capital release? I mean, I guess
you highlighted share buybacks quite rightfully, but I'm guessing that might not be the
only potential use. So I'm just wondering if you can say whether some of it might be used
to reinvest the business -- in the business either organically or inorganically?
The second question was on the NOK4 billion number. I mean, I guess the group result
includes net proﬁt sharing and risk results, which have been a bit volatile in recent years.
Page 24 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

So I'm just wondering if you can sort of explain how you think about those and why you
opted for that number maybe?
And then ﬁnally, the last one was just on the organic solvency capital generation of 15
points or NOK4.5 billion. I guess, from the outside it's a little bit diﬃcult to see what
you've achieved in recent years, because it's more than just operating proﬁts; it's excess
return stuﬀ as well. So I'm just wondering if you can give us a bit of insight into what you
have achieved and whether the new guidance is a sort of step up to any extent or really a
continuation of -- a very smooth continuation of what you have seen.
And sorry, perhaps if I can just sneak in one extra one. The modeling you showed, can I
just check whether that's -- I'm assuming that's at the end of Q3, and I'm assuming that
the transitional also will be a bit lower now than they were then, so maybe they run oﬀ in
fewer years. But yes, if you could explain that, that'd be great. Thank you.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Peter. I'll just start with the ﬁrst one and give the word to Lars and Kjetil for the
next ones.
I think if you look at the back book, more than 75% of our capital are today really
supporting the back book. Over time, of course, it will be quite a substantial number of
equity that can be distributed based on the runoﬀ of the back book. We see that NOK10
billion is the number we estimate to have released within the time frame to 2030. And we
are very eager to start doing share buybacks. So we'll be -- we will prioritize to do that
from the point where we reached 180%.
Then, of course, quite some -- you know that the running business, the front book needs
quite limited of capital for the organic growth, and we have opportunities to do some
bolt-on M&As, but that will be quite limited. So you should expect us to be very focused
on starting share buybacks for the bulk of the business, bulk of the capital that we have
estimated for capital reduction over this time frame.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

And if I continue on the NOK4 billion split down on the group result, that would be
approximately -- you're correct, it's a ﬁnancial result, it contains the return on the company
portfolios and some proﬁt split, especially from the Swedish operation and also some risk
results. And that would usually be in the order on a normalized basis of NOK500 million
to NOK600 million. So the remaining part of it is the operating result in the order of
NOK3.4 billion, NOK3.5 billion. So that would basically be the split on the NOK4 billion.
In terms of the runoﬀ of the transitional capital, that -- in these pictures that's based on the
Q3 numbers. However, as I mentioned in my presentation, we would estimate that the
underlying solvency without transitionals has increased from approximately NOK150
million at the end of the third quarter to approximately NOK160 million as of now due to
the increased interest rates in the Norwegian market, in particular, but also to some extent

Page 25 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

in Sweden since the end of the third quarter. So this number should be calibrated based
on that.
I didn't catch the third question on organic capital.

FINAL

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

I can give that a proper -- since the -- on the last Capital Markets Day we said that we
expect to free up roughly 10 percentage points of solvency or generate 10 percentage
points of solvency each year before dividends. And organically, that's roughly where
we've been. But of course, going into 2020 and having COVID and lower interest rates
meant that that has an impact on the solvency ratio. So I understand your question that it's
hard to see the underlying capital generation purely from the numbers.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thanks very much.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

The next question comes from Blair Stewart of Bank of America.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thanks very much for a really, really good presentation. I
thought it was excellent. I've got a couple of questions. The -- just looking at your targets
for the insurance business on the retail side, very aggressive top line growth or very
ambitious top line growth with a 92 or better combined. Can you just talk a little bit more
about how you get there? And where is the combined ratio at the moment for the retail
business?
The second question is really just a technical question on costs, where you've talked
about the ﬂat -- sorry, the pickup in costs in 2021, but I was wondering what's the ambition
on cost thereafter? Is it still to hold it ﬂat at that NOK 4.4 billion level? Or will there be
some growth in costs?
And ﬁnally just on the solvency, we've got -- you've said it's 160% today. You say you've
got about 10 points of management actions in the back. It does seem to me that with
some organic capital build, you could get to your 180% much earlier than 2023. And I
know there's volatility, and we could be talking about something completely diﬀerent in
just a few weeks' time. But I just wondered what your thoughts were on that, whether
2023 is a conservative estimate of when you get to that 180% and start to return capital.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Maybe I should start with the capital question, and then we help with you the other ones. I
think starting from 160%, having the generation of capital, as Lars has shown us in his
presentation, will, together with the measurements, have on hand to really increase this

Page 26 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

solvency. We estimate that this will bring us into this -- our capitalization situation, even for
the solvency without the transitional rules in 2023.
Of course, it is estimated based on the interest rate level we have seen up to now, we
have seen quite a strong growth in the long-term interest rates in Norway over the last
weeks. And of course, if we see continued increase in interest rate, that can -- is the most
important element that can push this forward. And we are eager, of course, to start as
soon as possible and would love to be starting doing share buybacks as soon as 2022.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

If I'm to follow-up on the cost level after 2021, what we are doing now, we're presenting
this NOK4 billion result objective or goal. We are moving our guiding as you're -- or our
guiding towards a result rather than a ﬂat cost base. That means that if we are on the
course to reaching that goal in 2023, that may impact the cost level in '22 and '23. If,
however, we are not realizing the sales ambitions and the margin ambitions that we have,
then we have, as I mentioned, a number of diﬀerent tools to cut cost. So we have to -- or
we will revert in next year on more guiding on the '22 and '23 costs. But I can assure you
that we will follow this very, very closely. But it will have to be seen in relation to the result
goal that we've now put forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in terms of the retail growth targets, you're quite correct, they are very ambitious. In
terms of the insurance part of our growth ambitions, Heidi mentioned several
partnerships and the acquisition of the Insr portfolio. In combination with the actual
organic growth that we've managed to realize this year on our own, and the three
combined leads us to believe that we will be able to have this very strong growth.
The combined ratio target that we have is on the combined business, the result in
Storebrand, which means that part of -- the diﬀerent product lines may deviate from time
to time. But overall, we aim to be within this range. And it wouldn't be correct of us to
give a guiding on each individual line.

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

We can -- I can add that year-to-date we have delivered 91% combined ratio on the retail
lines so far, although, of course, no guiding on that going forward.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

And also just to mention that, of course, Storebrand has a very strong brand recognition
when it comes to insurance in Nordic region. We, as I said in my presentation, really
started the insurance business back in 1767. So people know Storebrand and know that it
means insurance. Today, we have just a 4% market share that has been built up
organically after the sale of If back in the days. So we have a very strong reputation, strong
name and strong opportunities for organic growth. That is fueled by partnership and
some smaller acquisitions as we have seen. So we feel conﬁdent about the growth in
insurance going forward.

Page 27 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much. Can I just come back just with another point, just to save me coming
back later? The allocated equity, I think it's NOK0.9 billion in the insurance segment, it
seems quite low. And the ROE, 60%, correspondingly seems very high. Just wondered
what's going on there. I think that's lower than I expected and perhaps lower than you
previously guided. And ﬁnally, just an observation, the retail bank seems to be very much
core now. I was never convinced that it was core, but it does seem to be strategically
essential now. Thank you.

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

Sorry, Blair. Should I start quickly on the ROE? I guess the main reason for why we have
allocated so little equity to that business line is because of the diversiﬁcation eﬀects under
Solvency II, which Lars alluded to, where we can diversify away roughly between 70% and
80% of the P&C risk in our solvency calculation. So it means that adding on incremental
insurance risk is very capital eﬀective for Storebrand. And it will continue to be that way
for many years to come as the balance sheet will still be dominated by market risk for the
foreseeable future.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. And just a small comment on the bank. You're absolutely right, Blair. When we look at
the customer journeys that we work with, when we look at the segments we like to reach,
we have an increased presence in the Norwegian retail market. We see still a lot of onestop shoppers in there. We see that the savings market in Norway is maturing, but still
70% of the savings are into the bank accounts. So having a bank license with us in to really
broaden our presence in the Norwegian retail market, we think that is important for our
strategy in retail going forward.

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much, guys.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

The next question comes from Hakon Astrup in DNB. Please go ahead, Hakon.

Q - Hakon Astrup

{BIO 18861149 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Thank you for an interesting presentation. So three questions from me as
well. The ﬁrst one on the impact from the individual pension account. So you show on
Slide 45 that you will be back to the income level from 2020 and 2021 already in 2023.
Can you talk a little bit about what would be the main contributors for that? And is it also
possible to roughly specify how much each driver will contribute to the uptick?
And the second question, you state that the buﬀer to the minimum solvency requirements
can come down going forward. Can you be a bit more concrete on roughly when we can
see a lower Solvency II margin target from you? Is it you have to wait 5 years or 10 years?

Page 28 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

The last question, just to conﬁrm that the NOK4 billion in group proﬁt target, that is
excluding M&A?

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I'll start with the ﬁrst one. When you look at the Individual Pension Account, we see that
this will gradually come into eﬀect during 2021. The full ﬁnancial eﬀect will be on our
accounts in 2022. I think it's two main elements going in here. Of course, that will be
lower margin on the overall deﬁned contribution accounts in Norway. But we have still a
very strong growth. So the growth that has been around 20% annually in deﬁned
contribution, will, of course, continue as we see it into this time period. So that is an
important element.
The second is the cost eﬃciency. We are working daily on our costs under these elements
and are in a position of cost leadership and will also ensure that we have this cost
leadership going forward. So the reduction of the relevant cost base here is also an
element. So cost and growth in the volumes is the most important elements. And as Geir
said, the overall eﬀect from '21 to '22 will be around NOK100 million in this segment or
this product line. But it is also the fact that we have high growth numbers from insurance
and other parts of the business, so the overall result from our corporate market in Norway
will be stable throughout '21 to '22 and growing into '23, as you see from the graphics.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

In terms of the buﬀer levels, I tried to show you in this picture how the buﬀer levels are
calibrated to the risk in the business today. And as the risk in the business goes down due
to the transition of the business, then also these buﬀer levels will go down all else equal.
We will obviously come back to you and talk more about that when the Board has
decided that they deem a diﬀerent risk level to be the appropriate.
But what I want to point out on this picture is the direction of the buﬀer levels needed for
our kind of business. And also to emphasize that this makes additional security for the
capital release that we've talked about today, although that's being calibrated on the 50%
to 80% buﬀer levels. So this is an additional security that when the risk in the business
goes down, also the buﬀer levels may go down in due course. And we will revert to that
on a later Capital Markets Day.
In terms of the NOK4 billion, in our business plans we aim to continue to do small bolt-on
M&A, like we've done in the last few years. And that's part of what we try to achieve here.
But that's not a major part of the NOK4 billion, so we should be able to get there even
without M&A. That's the objective.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. I'd just like to add on also on the capital side here. Of course, you have this
continuous shift in the business mix, that is helpful for the needed capital. We also work -have worked now for a couple of years with our internal models. And of course, internal
modeling give us also a better view of the risks in the company. And we feel quite

Page 29 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

conﬁdent that going forward we will be able to use this internal model more eﬀective to
also ensure that we have a good use of capital and also distribution of excess capital.

Q - Hakon Astrup

{BIO 18861149 <GO>}

FINAL

Perfect. Thank you very much.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

I will just take this opportunity to ask one of the questions coming in here, written to me
with regards to M&A, bolt-on M&A. Will there be any -- in the NOK250 billion growth in
Asset Management, is there any bolt-on M&A projected in that?

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Again, the NOK250 million increase -- NOK250 billion increase in the asset management
business is about half market growth and about half sales. We may also have some bolton acquisition in that. But again, we should be able to get there without M&A, although
we plan to continue to do M&A from time to time, if we achieve the right price for the
right asset.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

And staying with asset management, you are guiding some 18 to 22 basis points in
revenue margin. Does that include performance fees?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

That is based on -- what we have put in the plan here is that we will get a return which is
equivalent to the benchmark return in the portfolios, which means that it does not include
performance fees. But -- so that's an upside when we get the performance fees on top of
that.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

And the next question comes from Ulrik Zurcher -- Sorry Ulrik, I was going to say
(inaudible) at Nordea. Please go ahead.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

Thank you, Daniel, for getting that correctly. And thank you for a very detailed
presentation. I want to touch on solvency and IFRS earnings. First on solvency, just so
know it's clear, you have -- in the capital generation and runoﬀ, you have 5 to 6
percentage points dividend, and then you will reach roughly 180% by 2023. But does that
mean that the buybacks then depend on the management action and the 10 percentage
point sort of buﬀer you also have there?
And then on IFRS earnings, how high customers buﬀers do you want? Because like your
Swedish one is explosive, it goes from 10 percentage points to 20 percentage points. And
also, are they investment returns? Are they based on the higher rates we've seen in recent
weeks or based on Q3 '20?
Page 30 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

The numbers are based on Q3. And in terms of how high the buﬀers will be, it is -- there
are individual buﬀers on many of these -- in many of these products, so it will very much
depend on the diﬀerent categories of products and customer groups. The more buﬀer we
have, the more risk we can take on behalf of our customers in order to achieve a better
expected return, which is good for customers and also protects shareholders' equity. So
we will continue to build buﬀers where we can. And some places where buﬀers are full,
which will depend on the diﬀerent product categories, we will not continue to build
buﬀers. But within the guaranteed portfolios, we have a risk management strategy that
tries to optimize this on behalf of customers and, at the same time, protecting
shareholders.
And in terms of the solvency buildup, you are correct, starting at 168% and then building
6% to 7% per year. It's an easy equation to see how far you can get. And the toolbox, as I
said, will allow us to improve solvency by at least 10 percentage points on top of that. So
it's a matter of when and if we use that toolbox in order to achieve the 180% and start the
share buyback.
It's a lot of discussion about 2022 or 2023. Of course, we, the management and the Board
likes to do what is necessary to start that share buybacks as soon as possible. So this is just
a projection based on where we are today, what the generation of solvencies. And we
also talked about the toolbox and our ability and willingness to use that toolbox to start
doing share buybacks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Thank you. Moving on. I have a question coming in here, written. The 10 percentage
points in capital generation, does that include using an internal model that we brieﬂy
discussed?

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

This is based on the growth -- Odd Arild?

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

This is based on the standard model --

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

Sorry. This is based on the standard model we use today and no eﬀect from any future
internal model is included into the capital generation target. That will -- we will start to
guide on that when we actually have an internal model in place and approved.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Right. The next question comes from Roy Tilley at Arctic. Please go ahead, Roy.

Q - Roy Tilley

{BIO 19127459 <GO>}
Page 31 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

Hello?

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I hear you right.

FINAL

Q - Roy Tilley

{BIO 19127459 <GO>}

You hear me. Okay. Thank you. I have a couple of questions on the individual pension
account. Just on the Slide 45, you show the expected proﬁt development there. And I was
just wondering why you don't see any bigger impact in 2021. I would assume the margin
impact would be present already in 2021, but you seem to see a much bigger impact in
2022.
And the second question, as you talked about this, this means that the pension system will
be much more individualized then. I was just wondering how you see or how you secure
engagement with your retail customers. Your -- you have a very strong engagement with
corporate customers, but do you have a strong enough distribution for retail?
And then lastly, do you expect any further consolidation in this market? And if so, is this
something you would also look at in terms of bolt-on M&A?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. When it comes to the individual pension accounts, there is now a time line
throughout 2021 where that is put into systems between the diﬀerent providers of
individual pension accounts, where we have the opportunity to very smooth-less give
information, so the run of the diﬀerent assets will be done in a good way.
Then we have also agreed on the time line, together with the regulators here, around
using the year to really get this shift of assets going in a smooth way and without any, of
course, eﬀect on the stock exchange, especially in Norway though, because this is quite a
substantial asset ﬂow that we will see throughout 2021. And that's why we'll see a gradual
eﬀect of the individual pension account during 2021, but the full ﬁnancial eﬀect will be
with the new rates in 2022. So that's why you see this impact on the proﬁtability from this
product.
When it comes to the market dynamic here, as you say, we have a very strong position
with our businesses. We have also gradually built up more and more contact and
dialogue with our individuals within these schemes. My Pension was one element that
Heidi mentioned, a very good app tool that have this opportunity to both show the total
pension fortune, do measures with it yourself and also, of course, be able to do both
more acquisitions of savings and so on within the app.
And we also have built up the individual pension account, but also our individual pension
account that you can choose yourself, if you like, to have your pension provided by
Storebrand, even if your employer has chosen another provider.

Page 32 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

So, I think together with what we have built up over the recent years, the product
development we have had, also the situation we see in the market where we have the
highest return, both on one, three and ﬁve years' time when it comes to our pension
proﬁles in the markets, and also being the only provider that includes private equity and
real estate as a part of these solutions has given a very strong position into this market.
And we feel conﬁdent when we move into this individual pension market and look
forward to the situation and how this will develop going forward.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

And if I may add a couple of comments. We have been a fully digital retail operation for
many years. In the past, the bancassurance model, where you had physical meetings with
your bank, was important for cross-sells. Now, and especially in these COVID days, we see
that a digital model, where we make products available, overview of your ﬁnancial
situation available, good control for the individuals in digital solutions, that's a really pre
for Storebrand. We really have seen digital sales strongly increasing, and we are not
cannibalizing any brick-and-mortar in our system, since we don't have any. So our digital
model is now taking oﬀ. And our good digital retail solutions is going to -- we believe, is
going to cement that strength in the retail market and that competitive advantage.
There was one last question.

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. There was a question on consolidation in the pension market and how we would
participate in that. I don't know if --

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Well, we have seen some smaller consolidations so far in the market. We will just follow, of
course, closely. This is our core market. If there is opportunities in the market in a good
way, we will, of course, look into that situation when it occurs. And I think that is what I can
say about that so far.

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

I think I might add one comment on that and it's -- that it's -- don't forget that it's a really
strong inherent growth in this market that we are still thinking that we will have more than
double-digit growth in the occupational markets in Norway and Sweden, all together on
our own.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I think that is a general more point also because when we see these presentations
altogether, you see more or less double-digit growth estimated, both in asset
management, in the pension area and also in retail. So we are in a fast-growing front
book. We don't need to do any M&A to see the growth come through our business. But
of course, we will look at opportunity as -- if they are there, but we don't need it to see the
growth come through and the operational results that we have presented here today
come through.
Page 33 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. The next question comes from Jan Erik Gjerland of ABG. Please go
ahead.

FINAL

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

Hey, good afternoon. Jan Erik Gjerland from ABG. I also have three questions. The ﬁrst
one is on the proﬁt sharing and the performance fees, including in the NOK4 billion. Is
there any proﬁt sharing or performance fees included in your sort of NOK4 billion
guiding? Or is that excluded? You mentioned some NOK500 million, NOK600 million on
ﬁnancials, but those probably are outside that part.
Secondly, on your dividend on Slide 105. It seems like a nice graph, but of course, 2019
will be a lost year. So where should we actually think about that graph going forward into
2020? Should this sort of start at NOK3? Or is the 170% plus solvency at that time,
something else than what we see today, which is sort of 160%, as you mentioned? So
should you give us some guidance for what we should think about when we see the lost
NOK3.25 and potentially for 2020?
And then ﬁnally on your retail share, which is 27% of the total by '23. Are you moving any
income from other areas to sort of get retail up to 27%? Or how do you -- how should you
really think about that portion of income being distributed?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

If I should start on the proﬁt sharing within the NOK4 billion, as I said, it's only based on
us achieving benchmark results. So there is one fund where there are some variable fee
also below the benchmark return, but that's a very limited amount. So it's basically
without any meaningful proﬁt sharing in the NOK4 billion.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Yes. When it comes to the dividends, our starting point is the last dividend that was paid,
the NOK3. And as is stated in our dividend policy, it should be above a 15% payout rate,
and it should be normally growing. So you should expect us now to pay a dividend in
2021, based on 2020 results, growing from this NOK3.
Then again, of course, it's always a balancing act around our normal ordinary dividends
and also getting to the point of doing share buybacks. We will have these growing
ordinary dividends from payout to date 2021. And I like to see that we come to a situation
where over capitalization and start share buyback as soon as possible, as we already have
discussed here. So that is our estimate when it comes to dividends.

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

Lastly, on the retail share and moving of any income, that does not include moving any
income. So it's the same distribution of income as today.

Page 34 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

Thank you. That's all from me.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

FINAL

Our next question comes from Thomas Svensson at SEB. Please go ahead, Thomas. We
are unable to hear you, Thomas,

A - Kjetil R. Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

We can still not hear you, Thomas. Are you on mute?

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

I don't think you're on mute, but you may type your question, Thomas, or try again if you
work out the sound.
We have one question coming in regarding the distribution of capital from -- that you
expect to start in 2023. Could you shed some light on the distribution pattern? And can
you also say something about the split between dividends and share buybacks in 2023?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

I think you have to look at the two separate. So Odd Arild has already talked about how
ordinary dividends will grow annually, and it will be at least 50% of the group result and
nominally growing every year. And then we've said that we'll release in the order of
NOK10 billion of capital, based on today's projections from 2023 until 2030. The
distribution, I've read some analysts say that this is back-loaded. But that's incorrect, it's
actually quite fairly distributed across those 7 years. So there will be a pickup in year one
and two, and then it's really quite evenly distributed during those 7 years.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Another question coming in. You talked about the potential in the public market and your
public occupational pension market and your ambitions to grow there. Can you shed
some light on the progress you're making there? You said you have some business
already?

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes, I'd like to do so. We see the public market as a very interesting market going forward.
It's a market twice the size of the market for retail -- no not --

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Pension.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Page 35 of 41



FINAL

Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

Yeah, the pension market in private sector. So this is, of course, a huge opportunity. It's a
market today with only one major provider, a monopoly, more or less, a mutual company
in the market. We have entered into this market, we see a strong ﬂow already this year
into Storebrand. It's, of course, municipalities, but it's also public companies. It's the -- it's
companies inside that sector and it's close ﬁrms that also have public pensions. So being
our provider with both public pension, with all the diﬀerent pension systems in the
Norwegian society, we can build on this and build a solution for these companies in
combination with the diﬀerent pension solutions.
And actually, as we speak, I see a pipeline of around NOK8 billion in assets from a public
sector coming into Storebrand, partly this year, some part of it over next year. But this is a
pipeline that has already been transformed into assets into Storebrand, and we really look
forward working in this market for many years going forward.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Then we have a couple of questions related to the insurance growth that we are aiming
for. One is regarding the -- on the P&C side. How or what part of this growth will come
from the Insr portfolio? Could you give us an update on that? And the second one is, can
we share something more about the small- and medium-sized enterprise P&C plans that
we have and the growth we see there?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Yes. So the Insr portfolio is approximately NOK1 billion in annual premiums. And we've
said that we expect to get more than half of that transferred into Storebrand. So that
means at least NOK500 million to NOK600 million in annual premiums should come into
Storebrand based on the takeover of that portfolio. And that's partly an SME, small and
medium-sized enterprise portfolio and partly a retail portfolio. So we will continue to build
on that book as we get it transferred to Storebrand and that will also be like a kick-oﬀ of
the start or kick-oﬀ for a broader SME eﬀort that we do in that part of the market. So I
don't know if you -- I think I covered it.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I think that's fair to say and it is, of course, the starting days when it comes to SME P&C
business. We get a kick start with this portfolio. Then, of course, we will work with that
portfolio towards all the customers we already have in the corporate sector. But I think it's
fair to say that we need to come back to give more insight into that progress going
forward. It's a very limited element of the plans that we have presented for you today.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

And I should also mention that we're not going into corporate P&C insurance in a broad
sense. This is a targeted SME eﬀort with a limited product range, but typically targeting
the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Norwegian market.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Page 36 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

And then we have Thomas, that's coming with a typed question instead, it's on costs. And
he's asking, the NOK200 million increase in costs in 2021 due to digital acceleration, what
is the total budget for these investments? And is it logical to think that it will come down
again in 2022?

FINAL

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

The total IT budget in Storebrand is split between the infrastructure and the tech and the
core systems and all that, and the digital eﬀorts that we do to develop new solutions and
more E2E, end-to-end solutions for the business. I don't think I want to go into too much
detail on that. But it's approximately a quarter of the total cost base of Storebrand is
related to IT and digital solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as I mentioned, these NOK200 million that we are using now to accelerate our digital
investments is primarily related to maintaining cost leadership in the IPA, the individual
pension account market and the Norwegian deﬁned contribution market. So really,
digitizing and automating the back end of that. And the second part of it is relating to the
asset management business and a total digitalization end-to-end of that business. So
those are the two targeted areas where we are investing now.
I also mentioned in my speech earlier that we have already invested in core systems in
Sweden. Those are now digitized to like 90% ﬁnished. We don't have -- we have very little
additional cost in that, but then you get some of the write-oﬀs in terms of the amortization
of that investment. So therefore, there's a delay on some of the cost. But we will revert
with cost guidance on '22 and '23 next year. Now, as I mentioned earlier on some of the
previous questions, we are targeting a bottom line number of NOK4 billion in group
result in 2023.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. I think also, Lars, moving forward, we see that with the fully digital operations, with
the automation going on, we think that the 1/4 that you said of the cost base being on the
digital side today, that will even increase going forward. But that will also help us have a
reduction in other costs of the business. So altogether, we, of course, have high ambitions
for the cost level and being a cost leader in our markets. But then again, the composition
we need to invest and will invest and have invested in the digital solutions, both in the
past and will do so in the future. So the part of that total cost base will be even larger
when it comes to digital going forward, but yes.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

We have a few questions coming in on the EIOPA Solvency II review, where an advice is
expected later this month. Could you share some -- what your expectations are of this and
how it could impact Storebrand?

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Certainly. So the revision of the standard model in Solvency II includes a number of
diﬀerent things. There is a paper, an advice expected to come out sometime later this

Page 37 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

month or in January. The most important part of that advice is probably related to the
interest rate stress and the volatility adjustments that they will be making.
But I'd like to revert to the process. So there's an advice, a ﬁnal advice from EIOPA that
will be sent to the commission. Then the commission has approximately one year to look
at that before they propose it as a law into the parliament and the EU Council. And then
the parliament and the EU Council will have another year in order to pass a law, at which
time, it will go to the commission for Level 2 delegated acts. And then EIOPA will outline
Level 3 guidelines.
As far as we understand this process, it seems to be dragging on until '25 or '26 -- 2025
or 2026 before it's actually implemented. By that time, we expect to have our internal
model tested and approved. And therefore, some of these changes to the standard
model under Solvency II or in the EIOPA framework will be probably less relevant for us.
So that I think is basically the process that we see happening on this matter.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

So we have one or two other Capital Markets Day to help to prepare, to discuss this topic.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. You are expecting to be phasing out the transitional rules. Is that
because the FSA is saying so? Or is it -- are they doing it faster than previously planned?
Or why is this?

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

No, this is related to the fact that the transitional rules are the diﬀerence in the way you
measure the value of the liabilities under Solvency I and Solvency II. And as our front
book, our deﬁned contribution, non-guaranteed business grows so fast, therefore, that
impact will decrease.
Furthermore, the forward rates are positive, and that will also decrease the value going
forward. And then there are some special conditions in the Norwegian law that was put in
place when EIOPA was in -- no, when Solvency II was introduced. That limited somewhat
quicker in Norway than in other countries. But in reality, this is, ﬁrst and foremost, a result
of the strong growth in our front book. And therefore, the less relevance or less part of the
total that the guaranteed back book will be part of.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

And also just look at our solvency numbers back in 2018 and 2019, where we were, for all
practical purposes, out of the transitional rules. So it was the reduction in the long term
rates during 2020 that made us begin to that transitional rules again. But we expect that
to then be out of that, again, in the next three to four years.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Page 38 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

FINAL

But it should be said also that obviously if rates were to fall a lot further, then the
transitional rules could come back and be a more important part of the total again for
some years. It's really the nature whey they are there in order to make a smooth transition
from Solvency I to Solvency II, and allow businesses to make that transition along the way.
So this is very much the nature of the transitional rules and the path that we expect based
on today's levels.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

And that also means that, of course, solvency ratio with transitional rules will be quiet
stable, even if you see rates go down.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

There are no -- we have one ﬁnal question coming in from Blair Stewart of Bank of
America. Please go ahead, Blair.

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you. Just one follow-up. The public sector opportunity, does that grow -- sorry,
does that come through in to the fee based deﬁned beneﬁt line in the accounting? And if
so, is that suﬃcient to allow that -- the assets there to at least stay stable rather than
decline as they have been?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

It's correct that they will be booked there for the time being. And then in due course
when it becomes a meaningful part of the total, we may put it out in the separate line. But
for the time being, it will be part of that line, yes.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

And it's true, Blair,
that we expect at least research generation (inaudible) business to be quiet stable all
these period.

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks again.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

We will take one ﬁnal, ﬁnal question ﬁnal question from Vegard Toverud at Pareto. Please
go ahead, Vegard.

Q - Vegard Toverud

{BIO 17129809 <GO>}

Thank you. And thank you for taking the ﬁnal question. It will be nice also if you could
answer the other questions I'll be happy to e-mail afterwards. But I'm looking at Page 45
there, and I'm looking at the contribution from what I understand is the traditional
Page 39 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

products. Why is it that it's going to increase in the matter it's drawn there from 2022 to
2023? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yeah, on the corporate side now, what we see is that we have tried here to show both the
dynamic when we have the individual pension account with the green stables, but also
the fact that we have a growing portfolio, of especially insurance with healthy rates, that
will increase the result in our corporate area from, of course, very low numbers this year
due to the fact that we did some extraordinary eﬀorts when it comes to disability pension
during the ﬁrst quarter, normalizes in '21, have a quite stable situation into '22 and
increases again in '22, due to the fact that we both see the growth from the individual
pension account coming through, but also growth and result especially from the
Insurance side. And then also, our guaranteed business in Norway is a part of this area
with a quite stable result generation, as we already said, during this period.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

So this is -- you usually don't see our numbers split this way, but that's all of the
occupational pension business in Norway, including risk products, deﬁned beneﬁt
products and unit-linked products or deﬁned contribution products. So it's a diﬀerent way
of seeing numbers split than you are usually used to, but it tries to explain to split out the
IPA impact on that business.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

And Lars has also shown how this is split with the NOK4 billion in our slides, showing how
this is into the normal segments that we reported.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

And with that, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the conclusion of this year's
Capital Markets Day. As always, please get in touch if you have any further questions, and
we will also do our best to answer the types of questions that have not been answered
yet.
But with that, thank you very much for tuning in today. Have a nice evening. Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the

Page 40 of 41



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2020-12-10

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 41 of 41

