Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andre Keller, Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmur, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Rene Locher, Analyst
Simon Fossmeier, Analyst

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Half Year Results 2020 Conference Call and Live
Webcast. I am Sandra, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that all
participants will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. The
presentation will be followed by a Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Philipp Gmur, Group CEO. Please go
ahead, sir.

Philipp Gmur
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our analyst conference call on the results
of the ﬁrst half of the 2020 ﬁnancial year. Within the next 30 minutes, we would like to
give you detailed information on our business development and the key ﬁnancials of the
reporting period. Following my introduction, our CFO, Paul Norton, will go through the
ﬁnancial ﬁgures. Then I would like to give you an update on the implementation of our
strategy helvetia 20.20. After my presentation, Paul Norton and I, as well as our Chief
Investment Oﬃcer, Andre Keller, will be pleased to answer your questions as always.
On Slide 3, I would like to share with you a brief overview of the main performance
indicators. Paul will give you detailed information on the developments of these ﬁgures
later on. The ﬁrst half of 2020 was marked by the COVID-19 pandemic. Once again, we
were able to demonstrate the stability of the business model and the solid capitalization
of Helvetia in a diﬃcult environment. Despite the pandemic, the business volume in the
non-life business showed a signiﬁcant increase of 9% in original currency. This is a
pleasingly strong premium growth, driven mainly by specialty markets and property
insurance in Switzerland and Europe.
Page 1 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

In that life business, investment-linked products in Europe developed very positively with
the currency adjusted increase of almost 27%. Nevertheless, as expected, the total volume
in the life segment declined by 14.5% in original currency due to the planned introduction
of a new tariﬀ in Swiss group life, as already communicated. This led to a 3.2% in original
currency decline in total business volume to roughly CHF5.6 billion.
On the earnings side, as already communicated on August 25, Helvetia has experienced
three key eﬀects that are extraordinary in this form. The pandemic left a clear mark on the
IFRS result after tax, which amounted to a minus of CHF17 million in the ﬁrst half of 2020.
First, COVID-19 resulted in a major distortion on the capital markets which considerably
weakened investment results in both the life and non-life business. On the other hand, the
pandemic had an impact on the underwriting result in non-life business. In addition, a
special eﬀect, a one-oﬀ write down due to the realignment of a project to renew the
system landscape in Swiss non-life was booked.

Bloomberg Transcript

Compared to the previous year, there was also no one-oﬀ positive tax eﬀect in
Switzerland. The net combined ratio in the non-life business was 95.9%, which is a very
good level considering COVID-19. The losses due to the pandemic aﬀected the combined
ratio by 4.4 percentage points. Without these burdens, the ratio clearly met the strategic
target which shows the good quality of the portfolio. Paul will give you some more details
later on.
The life business also proved to be robust. The new business margin of 2.8% was well
above the strategic target. In addition to lower discount rates and improved business mix,
as well as product and tariﬀ adjustments contributed to this development. Helvetia
continues to have a strong capital position. The SST ratio was 235% as of January 1, 2020.
According to estimates, the SST ratio at the end of June and thus after the acquisition of
Caser and its ﬁnancing continues to meet the strategic target of 180% to 240%. The
implementation of the helvetia 20.20 strategy is proceeding successfully and Helvetia is
well on the way to achieving its strategic goals.
At the end of June 2020, Helvetia successfully completed the transaction to acquire the
Spanish insurance company, Caser, and its ﬁnancing. The acquisition only aﬀects the
balance sheet and not the income statement of the half-year ﬁnancial statements. Caser
developed positively in the ﬁrst half of the year in a diﬃcult environment in the insurance
business. Above all, we are also on the home stretch on reaching our ﬁnancial targets
2020. I will come back to this later in the second part of my presentation.
With that, I would like to hand over to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will now provide you
with the most important information about the ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd also like to welcome you to
our conference call today. Within the next approximately 25 minutes, I'll give you more
detailed information on our ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half of the 2020 ﬁnancial
year. For this conference, we have simpliﬁed the slide deck. The full presentation in the

Page 2 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

form we normally use and with additional information is on our website available for
download.
I'd like to start with Slide 5 where we have summarized the main impacts of the COVID-19
crisis on the ﬁrst half of 2020. As Philipp has already mentioned, the pandemic left clear
traces on the IFRS earnings after taxes. On the one hand, the pandemic had an impact on
the underwriting result in the non-life business. The net claims burden from COVID-19 due
to regular claims from policyholders and from settlement solutions oﬀered by Helvetia,
especially in the Swiss epidemic insurance amounted to CHF89.4 million before taxes and
mainly aﬀected the Swiss business. Most of the claims payment Helvetia has incurred due
to COVID-19 have been in connection with business interruption cover and travel and
assistance insurance, primarily in Switzerland. The claims ﬁgure also include the
settlement solution for Swiss gastronomy companies with a pandemic exclusion in
epidemic insurance announced by Helvetia in May. This settlement solution was very well
received, with over 95% of the aﬀected companies agreeing to it to-date. The successful
implementation of the settlement solution provides security for customers and Helvetia. In
Germany, there was a similar solution, which has also been well received.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the life side, we have not seen any signiﬁcant eﬀects of COVID-19 on the margin after
costs. On the other hand, the coronavirus let to major distortions on the capital markets,
which considerably weakened the investment results in the both life and non-life business.
There were two main reasons for this. Firstly, Helvetia classiﬁes a signiﬁcant part of its
equity portfolio as held for trading, and consecutively gains and losses went directly into
the income statement, not as in many other companies through OCI in equity.
Economically the volatility is the same, and accounting choice just magniﬁed the P&L
impact.
On the right side of the slide, you can see how the investment losses are divided between
the P&L and OCI. Of the minus CHF365 million losses booked through P&L, some twothirds are related to equity-related instruments. As part of Helvetia's group risk
management, a loss limit concept has been used for many years to limit extraordinary
losses within balance sheet year. The implementation of the loss limit concept includes a
dynamic adjustment of the hedging instruments while limit losses can protect the balance
sheet against further downturns. This adjustment of the hedging instruments meant
Helvetia only partially participated in the subsequent recovery in the stock markets. Our
prime aim was to protect the balance sheet and solvency, not the proﬁt and loss account.
I would also like to emphasize that we have not signiﬁcantly realized investment gains, i.e.,
sell them in order to compensate for booked losses. The vast majority of our unrealized
gains on our bond portfolio keeps the higher frequency on competitive current market
yields. We did not believe it essential to some high-yielding bonds, which results in
having to re-invest in the future loan yields just to make gains to compensate these short
term valuation ﬂuctuations, which aﬀected the vast majority of the market.
Current investment income was also impacted by COVID-19 with lower dividends from
equities and funds. Various companies weren't part of a dividend payment in response to
pressure from regulators and politicians. Additionally, interest income was lower because
of the ongoing low interest rate environment. On the volume side, the measures to
Page 3 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

contain COVID-19 led to a temporary fall in new business during the lockdown period as
well as a reduction in outﬂows. Nonetheless, we managed to achieve very pleasing
growth in Europe in specialty markets and non-life business.
The bank distribution channels in Italy and Spain were less aﬀected by the reduction in
new business and proved to be stable, particularly in the life business with excellent
growth in investment-linked products. However, the impact of the pandemic on the
economic development will most probably lead to lower business volumes in certain lines
of business in the future, e.g., the transport business.
Let's turn to results for our business areas on Slide 6. Slide 6 gives you an overview of the
IFRS results after taxes of individual business units. In terms of business areas, the COVID19 pandemic aﬀected both the life and non-life businesses. Both businesses experienced
signiﬁcantly weaker investment results due to the collapse of the equity markets and
limited participation in the subsequent recovery as the hedging instruments were
adjusted consistent with aims -- with the aim of protecting the balance sheet. The non-life
underwriting result was impacted by COVID-19 claims and higher costs due to projects
and shifts in the business mix. Nevertheless, the combined ratio remains on a good level,
which underpins the sound quality of our portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

The non-technical result was burdened by a special eﬀect; one-oﬀ write-down due to the
realignment of a project to renew the system landscape in the Swiss non-life sector. In the
life business, decline in the investment result was partially oﬀset by a slightly higher
margin after costs, driven by improved risk result and lower expenses for policyholder
participation and for interest rate related reserve strengthening.
The new business also proved to be robust. The new business margin stands at 2.8% and
thus remains well above the 2020 strategic target. The interest margin remained solid as
well and is slightly decreased by 5 basis points compared to the previous year. The
reason for this was a stronger decline of the direct yields compared to average technical
rates. Decline in yields was due to the low interest environment and lower dividend
income in the course of the pandemic.
The successful implementation of a settlement solution in the non-life business oﬀered to
customers with a pandemic exclusion in Swiss epidemic insurance creates security for
customers and for Helvetia. In life insurance, Helvetia has also improved its risk position,
strengthened future proﬁtability by introducing a new tariﬀ in the Swiss group life
business.
Result in other activities also fell compared with the previous year, mainly due to COVID19 claims in group reinsurance and costs in connection with the acquisition of the Spanish
insurance company Caser as well as higher project costs.
With regard to reporting segments, the eﬀects of the pandemic was strongest in
Switzerland. Here Helvetia posted a lower result than in the previous year in both the nonlife and the life business. This is mainly due to weak investment results in both business
segments and the non-life to COVID-19 claims as well as a special eﬀect due to one-oﬀ
Page 4 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

write-down. The losses on the stock markets also signiﬁcantly reduced investment results
in the non-life and life areas of the Europe segment. This was partly oﬀset by a much
stronger underwriting result in non-life business. Helvetia beneﬁted from the good
portfolio quality with low exposure to COVID-19 claims and the lower claims frequency
during the lockdown period. Specialty markets segment also posted lower investment
income and a slightly lower technical result due to COVID-19 losses in active reinsurance.
I will continue with our growth in business volume on Slide 7. In the ﬁrst half of 2020,
Helvetia Group achieved a business volume of roughly CHF5.7 billion. This equates to a
currency adjusted decrease of 3.2% over the previous year. Despite the COVID-19 crisis,
we achieved a pleasing increase in premium volume in the non-life business of 9% in
original currency. The growth was mainly driven by Europe and specialty markets where
premiums increased by 1.8% and 33%, respectively. The signiﬁcant increase in the
specialty markets segment can be attributed to a strong growth in all three market units,
driven by both positive volume and price eﬀects. In particular, I'd like to emphasize that
specialty markets business has seen substantial rate increases as markets have hardened.

Bloomberg Transcript

Viewed by line of business, growth was particularly supported by the property business,
engineering, transport and art and active reinsurance. Motor business by contrast is under
pressure in most European countries due to the lockdown restrictions. In our Swiss home
market, we were able to increase premiums by 1.3%, property business has beneﬁted from
the expansion of partner business, the so-called B2B2C business at 4.7% higher
premiums. This growth was partially oﬀset by lower volume in liability business.
In the life business, business volume on Group level declined by 14.5% in original
currency. The decrease is due to a strategic decision in the Swiss group life business. With
the introduction of a new tariﬀ on 1st of January 2020, Helvetia strengthened the future
proﬁtability of the group life business. As expected, this led to a signiﬁcant premium
decline of 20.5% in this line of business in the ﬁrst half of 2020. A strong development of
the business volume with capital light investment-linked products individualized in all
country markets of the Europe segment, plus 26.8% in original currency had a partially
compensating eﬀect. Helvetia model of an agile and service-oriented organization,
providing strong support for diﬀerent sales channels and private customers were key in
this development.
I'd now like to move to the net combined ratio on Slide 8. The net combined ratio
amounted to 95.9% and thus increased compared to the previous year. Thanks to good
quality of the portfolio, the ratio proved to be very robust despite high COVID-19 losses.
The net claims burden from COVID-19 due to regular claims and policyholders from
settlement solutions oﬀered by Helvetia, particularly in Swiss epidemic insurance,
amounted to CHF89.4 million before taxes and aﬀected the combined ratio by 4.4
percentage points. One point I'd like to make here, there is still uncertainty in the market
regarding the treatment of reinsurance recoveries and this may take time to resolve and
could lead to diﬀerent results. We are, nevertheless, very conﬁdent that our insurance
recoveries estimate at the present is robust. Relatively low impact is proving the resilience
of the portfolio.

Page 5 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

Additionally, Helvetia beneﬁted from a lower burden to major losses from natural events
and lower loss frequency in individual lines of business as a result of the lockdown to
combat the pandemic. Cost ratio increased to 30.6%. The reasons were a higher
administrative cost ratio, mainly driven by higher project costs as well as a slightly higher
acquisition cost ratio due to shifts in the business mix. The one-oﬀ write-down of the IT
project in Switzerland is not included in the combined ratio.
On a segment level, in Switzerland, the net combined ratio was higher than in the
previous year, mainly resulting from a higher loss ratio due to COVID-19 related losses.
With 91.2%, Europe recorded a better net combined ratio compared to the ﬁrst half of
2020. While the claims ratio improved thanks to good portfolio quality, with a low
exposure to COVID-19 losses and a lower claims frequency during the lock down period,
the cost ratio remained more or less at the previous year's level. All European market units
achieved combined ratios below 100%.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the specialty markets segment, the net combined ratio increased slightly to 98.1%.
Claims ratios slightly increased predominantly due to COVID-19 losses. Inactive
reinsurance cost ratio was also slightly higher, mainly resulting in shifts in the business mix
in active reinsurance.
Slide 9 shows the development of our investment result. With CHF457 million, current
income was below the prior year level. The reasons for this are the ongoing low interest
environment and lower dividends from equities and funds during the COVID-19
pandemic. Realized and book gains and losses amounted to CHF365 million minus, a
substantial decrease compared to the ﬁrst half of 2019, which resulted from the equity
market crash triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Helvetia only partially participated in
the subsequent recovery in stock markets as our priority was to protect the balance sheet
and we adjusted our hedges accordingly.
Remaining book losses were mainly due to FX movements on ﬁxed income instruments
which are always booked through the P&L since currencies deteriorated against the Swiss
franc. Unrealized gains and losses recorded in equity remained almost unchanged with a
slight increase of CHF24 million. As a result of the development of the capital markets,
investments with market risk for the policyholder decreased by CHF121 million.
On Slide 10 I'll provide you with some details with regard to the impact of Caser on the
half year results. At the end of June 2020, Helvetia successfully completed the transaction
to acquire the Spanish insurance company Caser and its ﬁnancing. The acquisition only
aﬀects the balance sheet and not the income statement at the half year ﬁnancial
statements. As you can see in the left part of the slide, the purchase price plus minority
interest, corresponds almost exactly to the net assets of the company. The transaction,
therefore, results in a virtually no goodwill, only CHF2 million which means that the
purchase price was reasonable and reﬂects the book value of the company.
Financing the transaction was completed at the end of June 2020. Helvetia successfully
placed 3.3 million new shares at a price of CHF91 per share in a private placement by way
of an accelerated book building process or ABB, generating gross proceeds of CHF300

Page 6 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

million. The ABB was very successful with strong demand, leading to an oversubscription
at a very low discount of 2.3% at the last closing price.
We also issued a hybrid bond of EUR600 million which is eligible as equity for SST and
S&P at a very favorable coupon of 2.75% per annum which was also heavily
oversubscribed. We believe this shows the strength and support in both equity and credit
markets for the Helvetia story. After ﬁnancing of Caser, the leverage ratio now stands at
28% in line with our targets. I'd also like to repeat the information that we gave at the time
of announcing the Caser acquisition that we believe that the transaction is accretive to
EPS in the ﬁrst year.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you move to Slide 11, a ﬁrst look on Caser's half year results on a Spanish GAAP basis
show that Caser has developed positively in the ﬁrst six months of the year in a diﬃcult
environment in the insurance business. Risk premiums in the non-life and life business
increased year-on-year. The growth rate is above the market. Underwriting also
developed favorably in the life and non-life segments. Net income in the ﬁrst half of the
2020 ﬁnancial year amounted to EUR62 million.
I'd like to emphasize that due to the fact that Caser only reports on local GAAP and the
results also include certain one-oﬀ gains, its ﬁgures are only comparable to Helvetia's
numbers to a very limited extent. They can give a broad indication of the results on the
Helvetia IFRS accounting policies, however. However, IFRS acquisition accounting will
reduce proﬁts in the following years. It's a bit similar to what we had under the Nationale
Suisse. Therefore, these ﬁgures should not be taken as guidance for future performance.
Caser's half year 2020 results have no impact on the Helvetia Group results because of
the date of initial consolidation and the acquisition only aﬀects the balance sheet.
On that note, I'll now hand over to Philipp Gmur again.

Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Paul, for the details of our ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst six months of 2020.
It is by the way the last time you present the Helvetia results, I come back to this later on.
In the last part of the presentation, I would like to brieﬂy show you an update on strategy
implementation. The implementation of our strategy helvetia 20.20 is proceeding
successfully.
Slide 13 gives you the usual complete overview where we stand in terms of
implementation. I would like to go into more details on two items.
So let's move to Slide 14. One milestone we achieved in the ﬁrst six months this year is the
acquisition of a majority stake in the Spanish insurer Caser announced in January. Helvetia
is thus strengthening its core business, a key objective of our strategy. The takeover was
successfully completed at the end of the ﬁrst half of the year after reﬁnancing with equity
and hybrids capital in a challenging environment. It should be particularly emphasized
that the new shares created by way of the capital increase could be placed on the market
only at a small discount, thanks to the high demand.
Page 7 of 18



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

Helvetia's anchor shareholder Patria Genossenschaft supported the acquisition and has
purchased new shares at the issue price in proportion to its current shareholding of
34.09% in Helvetia. The acquisition represents a strategic milestone in the development
of Helvetia. Caser will further expand the European business as the second pillar of the
Group and increase the importance of the attractive non-life business. Helvetia is also
opening up valuable new sales channels in the area of bank distribution. As Paul has
already mentioned, Caser developed positively in the ﬁrst half of the year in a diﬃcult
environment.
Another important thrust of the current strategy period is the development of new
business models. Helvetia has taken an important step in this direction with the launch of
its own asset management products. Helvetia Asset Management launched its ﬁrst real
estate fund in June. The initial issue met with widespread interest and generated
proceeds of CHF450 million. With the launch of the real estate fund, Helvetia is
broadening its product range and opening up new sources of income in the form of
stable fee income.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, Slide 15 shows that we are well on track to reach our ﬁnancial targets. We are
pleased with the development of the individual ﬁnancial ﬁgures so far. The acquisition of
Caser supports Helvetia's growth ambition without compromising its ﬁnancial targets. It is
very important for me to emphasize that together with Caser, Helvetia will reach its
volume ambition of CHF10 billion by 2020, but without jeopardizing proﬁtability. To the
contrary, the transaction supports our strategy of proﬁtable growth.
Helvetia's operating business has proved to be robust and resilient despite the
consequences of COVID-19. In this respect, our geographical and business diversiﬁcation
was a major contributory factor. Of course, one-oﬀ special eﬀects burdened our half-year
results. However, if there are no more adverse developments in the second half of the
year, we are conﬁdent to ﬁnally achieve the goals set forth in the framework of helvetia
20.20.
This brings us to the end of the presentation. My colleagues and I would now be pleased
to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.

Questions And Answers
Operator
We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) The ﬁrst
question comes from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. My ﬁrst question was on the non-life walk actually on the Slide 29
from your extended slide pack. I'm just wondering if you can provide us with a little bit of
help in understanding the moving parts. I mean, in particular, you show a 6.2 percentage
points decline in the current year claims ratio. I mean, I think that comes from three things.
Shift in the accounting, which shift things into PYD, probably some good claims from
Page 8 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

people driving less and things like that in the COVID environment and maybe also an
underlying improvement. So I'm just wondering if you can help us understand maybe
quantify what those three things are and in particular, if you're able to just put out the
PYD, That would be very helpful.
The second area I wanted to focus on was on the investment portfolio. I guess the credit
ratings have seen a decline just naturally from the -- from bringing Caser's assets in and
obviously Caser's assets were basically rated to BBB and below. I'm just wondering if you
can say what your plans are going forward with that. Whether there have been any sort of
ratings migration that you've experienced to-date and how you see that portfolio. What
your appetite is for re-risk and going forward? And maybe on that side, I mean, you
mentioned your net equity exposure at the end of June. I was wondering if you could give
us an update and also say what your view on real estate is in the current environment.
Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Peter. I would ask Paul to answer your ﬁrst question regarding the non-life walk
and then Andre to answer the question with regard to the investment portfolio. Paul, go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. Peter, we don't give a great deal of detail out in the half year. I mean, a large part of
the current year claims ratio improvement has been due to the fact that people simply are
not driving and we've had lower claims in the -- in those areas which have been aﬀected
by lockdowns. Sot hat's the major element of that. That's the most important thing I can
say. You can see then the COVID losses are pretty clear and NatCat ratio has barely
moved and prior year claims development, there have been one or two larger clients,
that's also due to the accounting element as well from the specialty markets business,
which is growing and that's based on the underwriting year basis, not on an accounting
year basis. So that's why. But it was not a shift, except for the growth in the prior year
development. But the reduction is mainly due to, A, underlying as you said and that -above all due to the impact of less activity due to COVID.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thank you very much, Paul, and enjoy your retirement. Very well deserved.

A - Philipp Gmur
Andre?

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Okay. Peter, this is Andre speaking. So the ﬁrst part is about the credit portfolio. As you
saw on the extended slide pack which I would guide you to on, the pages in like 49 and
so on, you see that the acquisition of the Caser business brought government bonds
especially in Spain and Italy with it, which mostly explains the credit ratings. So there was
no general credit migration or negative credit migration in the overall book, so to say.
Page 9 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

Then, as regards the outlook of that, as normal course of business and portfolio
construction, we will also review this portfolio. And given all the insurance speciﬁc
constraints like capital eﬃciency and others, we will also assess how to evolve their
portfolio, but there is no like immediate change. It will be part of the strategic asset
allocation process which we adhere on an annual basis. So that's for the bond portfolio.
Then the equity is the second. We included a slide in the extended slide pack, which is
Slide 45 and there you see the evolution of the equity exposure, on the one hand total
equity exposure and then including the hedges on a delta adjusted basis. And as part of
executing on the loss limit concept, we are now gradually restoring our equity exposure
back to the strategic asset allocation. So that's -- and you see the exact numbers on that
slide on a quarterly increment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Third, real estate. I would say, the real estate market outlook is dominated by the interest
rate environment. As this is a cash ﬂow producing asset, it's deﬁnitely, I would say, well
positioned in comparison to other notional assets because it's a real asset. I would then
diﬀerentiate whether it's residential and commercial and then refer to our own portfolio
which diﬀers from the general markets in two ways. First, it's a predominantly residential
portfolio in Switzerland. So it has very little commercial exposure and this is also in COVID
times, I would say, a good feature. And the second piece is that we do not actually
acquire a lot of real estate in general, because we have actually a quite huge pipeline of
own development, which we can do above market rates from our real estate portfolio.
That's something to consider and this is also explains a bit the strategy with the real estate
fund, which enables us to kind of nurture that ecosystem within the company.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thanks very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Are there more questions?

Operator
The next question comes from Simon Fossmeier from Vontobel. Please go ahead.

Q - Simon Fossmeier
Thank you. Hello, everyone. First question is on the acquisition of Caser. I'm still puzzled a
little bit on the accretion. From what I see, you paid a little bit more than you initially
planned and obviously you have to issue more shares than initially planned, but it's still
EPS and ROE accretive. And I just wonder if you could shed a little bit more light if
anything else changed. Also on the appendix, I see that you acquired 71% versus 70%. Is
this just a rounding error? And ﬁnally in the Annual Report on Page 34, you're saying that
the Caser would have accounted for roughly 50 million in proﬁts and that includes some
special eﬀects. If you could give us some idea of a potential run rate in the future, that
would be great.

Page 10 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

And then just some minor questions. I saw that you had a change in the actuarial reserve
in life, pretty high 2.2 billion. Is this because of the reduction of the BVG business? And
ﬁnally, on solvency. I know you don't give an exact number, but 180 to 240 is a pretty wide
range. If you could maybe narrow that range a little bit for us where it stands at half year.
And ﬁnally then Paul, just wanted to point out that Bank Vontobel has great retirement
products, so maybe we should talk. Best of luck to you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Thanks for those three questions. First, the acquisition of Caser, then the actuarial
reserves and the solvency topic. I think, I hand over to Paul.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. I can do them in almost reverse order. Actually the -- you're right, the reduction in
the reserves is due to the (inaudible) 2020, the new tariﬀ has led to a large outﬂow of life
reserves there. The solvency is at the lower end of the range. We don't want to give any
more details at the moment. As you know, SST is quite volatile, shifts up and down all over
the place.

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, the acquisition of 70% -- 71% is roughly rounding diﬀerences. There were some light
adjustments at the very end. And the price we paid was only slightly above what we had
originally said. The original calculations, we gave the original estimate, it was -- it is price
accretive -- sorry, EPS accretive from year one from the full-year one. See, the changes
that have been made since the slight adjustment in an acquisition price and so on make
no diﬀerence whatsoever really to that estimate.

Q - Simon Fossmeier
And any guidance on the 50 million proﬁt contribution? Is that what we should expect
going forward? And that would be relatively high if I just take the 49 multiplied by 2, that
would be substantial.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah, I'd rather not, because it's all based on a local GAAP basis and there was also net of
acquisition cost we had. We had -- obviously, as you all know, investment banks don't
come cheap, plus we have the integration cost for the IFRS. And the gap is quite diﬀerent.
There is some one-oﬀ eﬀects in there, both positive and negative. So I don't want to give
any guidance, but it's to give you a kind of rough indication. We're not talking about
going down to 20 million or anything like that. So -- but it's not going to be 100 million
either. So it gives you some kind of rough indication, but unfortunately we can't give more
and I think it'd be dangerous to do so.

Q - Simon Fossmeier
All right. Thank you.

Operator
Page 11 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

Your next question is a follow-up question from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please
go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks a lot for letting me come back. Three further questions, if I may. The ﬁrst one, on
the COVID claims, the net claims of 4.4 points I think translates to 90 million claims. I
mean, you mentioned that sort of reinsurance discussions were ongoing. Are you able to
tell us what the gross claims are related to those 90 million? That would be the ﬁrst one.
The second one be non-life administration ratio. I mean, you mentioned the project costs
there that deﬂated it. Should we expect that level going forward or is that an elevated sort
of temporary one oﬀ as it were? And then third one on Caser. I mean, I appreciate it's
diﬃcult to give a forecast for earnings or underlying earnings. At the end of the day, it's
diﬀerent accounting frameworks. But I mean, probably what the most important thing is
that today is what the sort of cash ﬂows or cash implications might be. I'm just wondering
if you can say anything on that and I appreciate the short term there is going to be some
volatility, but do you have any feel for what it might be able to contribute on a long-term
basis? Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
Again, Paul, may I ask you?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

We have not -- we don't want to give out the net and the gross because it also shows what
the net is and position vis-a-vis reinsurers and so on. So we're leaving it at the moment
deliberately at the net level. I think you understand with -- the situation we are in with
discussing reinsurers. We just want to keep it really close to the chest.
The non-life admin cost, I mean we say predominantly, I mean, there were several factors
impacting the admin cost. Probably the largest single one was project costs, but it doesn't
mean it's -- overall, there are other impacts. I mean, the lower interest rates, the pension
costs under IAS19 increased. We also had a change in the commission cost ratio due to
more B2B2C business and broker business in Germany and there were -- the projects are
also not just IT type cost, but they were also growth projects, particularly in the specialty
markets business in France and specialty markets Switzerland, International with new
business lines being introduced. So it's a mix of things, of which happens to be -- the one
single element was project cost.
At the moment, short-term, yes. Mid-term we have started a project to improve the
eﬃciency of our organization starting in Switzerland and in the Group functions, which will
be one of the platforms for the 2025 strategy, which aims to improve eﬃciency and thus
reduce costs overall.
In terms of the cash implications to Caser, I will say it's diﬃcult to estimate, but what I can
say is the banks, the previous bank of Caser wanted a dividend out of the company and
they got a dividend out of the company and it was a regular dividend. Furthermore, they
placed a hybrid in the market, which is -- falls due for repayment next year in the spring
Page 12 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

and we will renew that probably, very probably and we will probably renew that internally.
I think some of it is held by the existing banks and some of it was placed with external
investors. And at the moment, our thought is, it's not set in concrete, but that we can
renew that internally and that would be another cash stream to us.

FINAL

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Rene Locher from MainFirst. Please go ahead.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, good morning all. And so I would like to just start with this 40 million one-oﬀ in the
non-life business. I mean, perhaps a little bit insight, what exactly happened and what
your plans are going forward in IT non-life. So that's the ﬁrst one. And then on -- in this
context on Slide 20, you show all the investments of your Helvetia venture fund. Just out
of curiosity, I'm wondering how do you kind of control your investments? What the returns
are? Because I can see there are quite an impressive list. And the second one is on Slide
21 just for my understanding on decent -- the Swiss real estate fund. You have now
proceeds of around CHF450 million. And I am just wondering that the real estate is
coming from -- is that kind of carving or carve-out of your balance sheet and then you
pack into a fund just that I get a better understanding here?
And on Slide 14, I guess you have explained this to me several times, but still struggling a
bit to understand. Why do we have these 4.2 billion classiﬁed as available for sale -- as
trading? So would it be easier just to reclassify it to available for sale? I mean, then it's just
accounting gimmick, but then it would lower EBITDA volatility in your results. And last but
not least, as a follow-up question on -- Peter asked this for on Page 46. These bond credit
ratings, so for example, what is the reason for this increase in lower BBB and not rated. I
guess this is something to do with Caser. If you could shed a little bit more light here.
Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Rene. Five questions. Let me answer question one and two and then ask
Andre to answer questions number three and ﬁve regarding the Swiss real estate fund
and the bond credit ratings. And Paul will ﬁnally answer question number four regarding
the investment portfolio classiﬁcation.
Okay, question number one, our 40 million one-oﬀ writing down due to IT project in
Switzerland, what are our plans. What we want to pursue is like a consolidation of our
diﬀerent back end IT systems in Switzerland. We have of course quite a lot of IT projects
going on, be it with regard to front-end applications to back-end applications to
enterprise content management topics. And why did we now write-oﬀ this 40 million? We
have a periodic review of our diﬀerent projects and we came to the conclusion that the
risks to fulﬁll the targets we were setting forth for this project are too high and we came to
Page 13 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

the conclusion to better stop now than to try to work hard and to maybe to come to a
better solution within one or two years' time. And it was for risk reasons that we came to
the conclusion to stop this project. However, it's not a stop of the digitalization initiatives
we have in Helvetia, but we just want to choose another way to get there.
Question number two, our investments in our venture fund. As you probably know, we
have like CHF55 million for this investment portfolio. We are of course regularly tracking
the funds and its investments and of course the valuation of diﬀerent investments. And as
we said, when we were launching this fund, we have diﬀerent goals with this fund. The
ﬁrst goal is to ﬁnd investment opportunities, which help us to like -- to bridge a modern
world with the old traditional insurance world. A second goal might be to make an
investment and after a couple of years to divest it again. Finally, we want to earn money
also. It's not that that's only money to play with, if you will. And the third goal is to -- by
investing in new ventures to get access to new business ideas as well. And so far we are
pretty happy with the development of the fund and the development of our investments.
Now, Andre?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Yes. On the year real estate fund, so let me give you a couple of details there. So there
was, as you said, a carve-out from the life insurance portfolios in the amount of a bit more
than CHF530 million. This was then appraised by independent appraiser, both actually
seem like a collective investment scheme act and the insurance authority were involved.
So they had to independently assess that this appraisal and the portfolio which was
carved out is representative of a general insurance, the real estate portfolio that we have
in these two as legal entities. So these are kind of mandatory criteria which we -- you need
to or we need to fulﬁll, others as well.
And then it was kind of sold to the investment fund and the investment fund then took
CHF450 million from unitholders and took CHF80 million of leverage or mortgage
ﬁnancing. So this explains the CHF450 million which was the unitholders. So CHF530
million broadly held portfolios were carved out from the insurance, life insurance legal
entity in Switzerland, appraised by independent appraiser and sold to the real estate
fund. So -- representative in terms of residential, commercial use, in terms of geographic
footprint, so broadly representative of our portfolio.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

That's okay. If I quickly make -- I mean, I've seen that with other companies. My question
is, if I would be a life policyholder Helvetia, I'm not sure if I would like the company to sell
a real estate to kind of an investment fund. So this is just my general remark. So this is a
little bit -- but then I think it's -- this is how it's done in Switzerland.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

One of the reasons why we carved it out was because we had an overhang in the real
estate. As I'm sure you're aware, the maximum amount of real estate, real estate related

Page 14 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

investments is 35% (inaudible) rules because of the outﬂow of assets for the (inaudible)
2020 we had to reduce that anyway.

A - Philipp Gmur

FINAL

And ﬁnally, it remains in the Helvetia universe, if you will, because the fund this managed
and then we'll payback the fees. Okay. The other question is the credit ratings with bonds.

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Yeah. So you were referring to Slide 46 in the extended slide deck. I would also add then
Slide 49. And as I alluded to before to Peter, this is really related to the Caser acquisition.
With acquiring Spanish insurance legal entity, you always have a lot of local bonds. In this
case, it's portfolio of Spanish, but also other sovereign bonds like Italy or France, Belgium
and other securities in these areas. So the BBB and not rated or below BBB and not rated
these are not BBB or below BBB like high yields. These are not rated, so what Caser has in
their portfolio was like structured vehicles that includes also sovereign bonds, for
example, the predominant part there are Spanish sovereign bonds, Italy, France, which
they have packaged in structured securities, but they are not rated. But it's not like high
yield that we kind of increased investment risk in the high yield part. It's structured
vehicles, which contain actually sovereign bonds, Spanish, Italy and France and others.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, thanks.

A - Philipp Gmur
Now, Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yes. We organize a lot of our investments through the equities and funds within our own
funds, so mix funds. And these funds we set up for various operational reasons. It's much
easy to handle and at the time also for tax beneﬁts. So these funds are held centrally and
then the market units participate in them. And the easiest way to do that from an
accounting and an operational basis was to have them as fair value proﬁt and loss. It is
extremely diﬃcult to start consolidating internally AFS funds.
We realized a couple of years ago, we looked at a couple of years and said, look, this is
advantage, this is disadvantage. One disadvantage was the volatility, but then you see, I
mean, IFRS 9 is coming in with IFRS 17. And it would have caused an awful lot of disruption
just to set them up in a diﬀerent way for a short time and then to reset them up again the
IFRS 9. So we said, look, we'll look at the whole thing again when IFRS 9 comes in and we
can set them up diﬀerently if necessary then.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. So all the best, Paul.

Page 15 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Rene.

A - Philipp Gmur

FINAL

More questions?

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We have a follow-up question from Rene Locher from MainFirst.
Please go ahead.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Yes, just ﬁnal one, I mean. And what about new ﬁnancial targets and the Investor Day?

A - Philipp Gmur
Sorry, you were...

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Sorry, Philipp. Yeah, I mean, 2020 is now coming to an end. So I was wondering whether
we get the new ﬁnancial target matrix? When we...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philipp Gmur
Yes. We are planning to hold an Investors Day in the ﬁrst half of the new year.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Philipp Gmur
Yes.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Fine. Okay, thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
If there are no more questions, let me say a word to our CFO, Paul Norton as long as
hopefully everybody is on the phone. He was now presenting the results for the last time
since he is stepping down as the CFO of Helvetia by the end of the month. Back in 2007,
he was ﬁrst presenting at an analyst conference our -- at that time half-year numbers and
since then he has been acting as CFO for more than 13 years.

Page 16 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

FINAL

Holding a BA in History, Paul is more than an ordinary accountant. He has a broad view on
the developments in the world and in our industry speciﬁcally. He was modernizing our
balance sheet management and strengthening the relationships with the ﬁnancial analysts
and the investors. At any time, Paul proved to be a reliable colleague and CFO. And I
would like to thank Paul for all what he has done during the last 13 years for Helvetia, for
me, and I hope also for the analysts and investors to explain our results. And I wish you all
the best for the future, Paul.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. I'd also like to -- yes, I started oﬀ my ﬁrst half year with also a crisis. But
as you remember, we had hurricane Kyrill and I had to present the results with a
combined ratio for the ﬁrst time and only time over 100%. So I started the crisis, I ﬁnished
with probably not the best results the one would expect to go out on, but I could
probably joke that I am the only CFO actually cleans the decks for his or her successor the
way around. So, I've had a great time for 13 years. I very much enjoyed the interaction with
you. You've always been very good, very understanding. We've had some good debates,
some good interactions and I also wish you all best of luck. And I hope you will be as
supportive in that way, obviously critical, but supportive with my successor as well. Thank
you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Paul. Is there any other questions?

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We have a follow-up question from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Sorry, I didn't mean to prolong the call. I pressed star one before your conclusions. But if
I've got the mic then very quickly, I was just going to ask if you had any view on the life's
risk result which is obviously very good this period and just whether there is anything
special there. I mean, whether it's just normal volatility, whether -- is there anything that
should sort of change our view on that going forward? So apologies for adding another
one.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yes, you're right, it's had a recovery. We've had over the last few years, if you follow -- you
obviously follow us, Peter. We've had a deterioration in the risk results and we've been
monitoring it and trying to manage it, in particularly in the BVG business and as a result of
that monitoring and managing and the tariﬀ changes and so on, the results have come
back again.
I think to be fair, our actuaries in the past few years were also a little probably conservative
in their estimates and their reserving for that because they weren't sure how it developed.
I hope it's sustainable. Obviously, you don't know in a -- mainly it's invalidity business
that's caused a problem and one of the features of recession is that you tend to get more
Page 17 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2020-09-15

invalidity claims. So obviously it may deteriorate given what's happening with COVID, but
it seems to be as it is coming back to where it should be because of actions that we've
taken.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

FINAL

That's great. Thank you very much, Paul. And again, enjoy the time oﬀ. Many thanks.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thanks.

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. So if there are no more questions, I would like to thank you very much for your
attention, for your interest in Helvetia and I hope to see or hear you again in due time.
Have a good time.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

