Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy Parsons , Group Chief Financial Officer
David Richardson, Group Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director UK Corporate
Business
Guy Horton, Group Actuarial Executive
Stephen Lowe , Investor Relations

Other Participants
Analyst
Andrew Crean
Barrie Cornes
Charlie Beeching
Nicholas Johnson
Oliver Steel

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. And I'm David Richardson, Chief Executive of Just Group. And I
want to welcome you to our Full-Year Results today. Understandably, we have more
people than usual on the webcast due to travel restrictions. So a warm welcome to you
too. And I'd like to thank Deutsche Bank for the use of their facilities today.
I'll introduce everyone to our new CFO, Andy Parsons. Andy joined us just over 10 weeks
ago, it is only 10 weeks Andy. And I'm truly delighted to have him by my side, he has got
up to speed rapidly, which is probably not surprised given both the depth and the breadth
of experience that he brings in to role from previous roles in the sector. I'm also joined by
Guy Horton, who leads our Actuarial and Capital teams. And you hopefully remember
from our interim results, Guy is going to help out with the Q&A today. So I'm sure, you'll
keep him busy.
I'm going to open today with some overarching remarks. We have a clear strategy
focused on improving the group's capital position. And today I think, we can announce
that we're making really good progress on that. Despite operating in a tough
environment, we took big spread -- the big strides in improving our organic capital
generation and reducing balance sheet risk during 2019.

Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

We've halved new business capital strain. We've reduced our property sensitivity. We
signed our first DB partnering deal, and we've released capital through longevity
reinsurance. We achieved organic capital generation in the second-half of the year and at
the same time accelerated our adoption of the new regulatory requirements. However,
we've no plans to ease up, there's much to do and still a way to go before we're truly
capital self-sufficient. And I mean that in the sense of having a level of capital surplus
being generated that it's giving us real choices in how to deploy it.
We are confident, we've a robust planned to deliver sustainable capital model, and
achieving this will allow us to refocus on a real purpose of helping our customers achieve
a better later life, while creating value for shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's step into the results. As you all know, capital was my number one priority, when I
assume to CEO role last night. We've already made some big strides in the right direction.
We've held a discipline our new business pricing, costs and product design. And our
award has been a halving of new business capital strain, despite only having to trim
volumes by 12%. This means that in the second-half of the year, the margins and capital
release from the back book actually exceeded capital consumption by new business
strain, finance costs and other expenses. And for the years a hold -- as a whole, we were
organically capital generative, when you take management actions such as the DB
longevity reinsurance into account.
I'm also really excited our first DB parting deal has been done. It's the kind of deal that will
help us deliver sustainable organic capital generation of the future, and we'll come back
to that later. We've also decided that the sooner we recognize the full cost of reg change
to better. So, we've decided to take GBP219 million of regulatory cost today, not just the
GBP70 million that we flied at the time of the interims.
We now estimate the remaining regulatory cost of fully implementing SS3/17 and PS19/19
at around GBP80 million, which together with the GBP219 million we've always hit would
be well within the guidance of an aggregate GBP350 million that we provided at the
interim results.
Now getting to this point, has required us to restructure the internal LTM resecuritisation,
which is the mechanism by which we recognize the matching adjustment on these assets.
The old notes structure was designed before the recent regulatory changes, in particular
the advent of the effective value test or the EVT for short. The restructuring facilitates our
compliance with the new rules.
The decision to accelerate our regulatory costs has obviously effected our headline
capital coverage ratio. If we hadn't decided to recognize these regulatory cost upfront,
our capital coverage ratio would have been a 156%. Haven taken more of the regulatory
charges upfront, we believe that our underlying solvency ratio trajectory, absent significant
unhedged market movements should be positive from this point forward. This will be
driven by our expectation that we will be organically capital generative, and also given that
we have a range of capital management actions still available to us.

Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

Now in ordinary circumstances, market movements would cause some fluctuations around
that underlying trend. Right now, we are experiencing truly extraordinary short-term
market fluctuations, but our increased level of interest rate hedging, means that our
capital coverage ratio is unchanged since the year-end and remains at a 141%. Andy will
cover this in more detail later on.
And finally, although, our primary focus is on capital, we've still managed to post healthy
IFRS operating profits. And our IFRS intangible book value of 181 pence per share
obviously remains significantly higher in our share price.
So moving on Slide 5, you'll recognize this from the interims, it shows the capital actions
toolkit available to us to offset the regulatory costs we have faced. I'm pleased that since
the interims we've made good progress on all six of the boxes on the right, but with more
to come on each. I'll talk to most of them over the coming slides.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's start with no negative equity guarantee or NNEG risk transfer. As a reminder,
we're hedging our property no NEG risk for two reasons: The first is just to improve our
regulatory capital position. And the second is to reduce the level of property sensitivity on
our regulatory balance sheet. Since year-end, we've concluded a second transaction, this
time in respect of a rather more substantial GBP670 million of lifetime mortgages, roughly
3 times the size of the first transaction.
The counterparty is very well-regarded AA rated insurance company. It is a partial hedge
with a 30-year duration, providing loss absorbency of up to GBP220 million, and has
delivered a useful capital benefit since year-end. We also expect to get some matching
adjustment benefit from this in the future, but we'll update you when that work is
complete.
The no NEG hedging has also contributed to the reduction in property sensitivity, which
you'll see later on when Andy covers it. Now with this transaction and the pilot one, we've
hedged almost GBP900 million of LTMs, but there are still GBP5.5 billion unhedged. So
there's plenty of potential to derisk further in the future.
We've also made significant further progress in creating a capital our DB solution to tackle
transactions of more than GBP250 million. We have excellent pricing and distribution skills
for larger DB transactions, but we don't have the capital base to retain a significant
number of them on our own balance sheet. So, writing these larger transaction using
mainly external capital provided by reinsurers enables us to play a part in this huge market
by deploying our award winning new business franchise at the front-end, but using
somebody else's balance sheet at the back-end. The good news today, is that we're up
and running with our first reinsurance partner, and we're working hard to sign others and
to do further partnering transactions.
Now, I think it's fair to say that we've transformed our organic capital generation dynamics
in 2019. This has been achieved primarily through the reduction in new business capital
strain by more than half. It's fell from GBP160 million in 2018 to just GBP74 million in 2019.
Premiums were 12% lower, but strain as a percentage of premiums fell from 7.4% to 3.9%.
Page 3 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

And is now well within our mid-single digit guidance. And we think this broad level of strain
is sustainable in the future.

FINAL

We made multiple price increases to compensate for the additional capital we now
required to hold under the new EVT test and to mitigate the impact of lower risk-free
rates. As well as our prices, we have changed our business mix, and are rising shorter
liability duration business, which is less capital intensive.
The DB longevity reinsurance, we announced the half year has already had a beneficial
effect in these numbers. What this means, is that even in the new capital regime we are
achieving our targeted mid-teen return on shareholder capital deployed in new business,
with an average five-year payback period. We've shown further details on full cash flow
emergence profile of new business in the release at this morning, if you want to look into
further detail.
And a recurring team, we're not finished here yet either, further management actions
such as DB partnering and potentially additional reinsurance should enable us to reduce
strain further in the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Cost control is another important focus across the business, and has been a key
contributor in our journey to organic capital generation. We dully the GBP16 million of cost
savings in 2019 that we estimated the time of the interims and that's broadly equivalent
to a 10% reduction in our core management expenses compared to 2018. We have
further initiatives plan for 2020, and we are focused on the need to eliminate the GBP18
million of expense over on which you'll see later.
Now, back to organic capital generation. When you add all these factors up, you can see in
the top graph that perform management actions we came very close to being organically
capital generative in 2019. And that once you add the management actions which are
shown in the bottom graph, we were organically capital generative in 2019. We think
there's a reasonable chance, we will get there before management actions in 2020, and
fully expect to make take it over the line when those are included.
The leadership team are now all strongly incentivized to deliver organic capital
generation, not just IFRS profits, and that certainly helps to focus minds. This means, we
are more confident than ever that we will achieve our goal of capital self-sufficiency.
Now, in the context of significantly improved organic capital dynamics, we thought it was
time to grasp the nettle on regulatory change. As I said at beginning, we've restructured
our LTM securitisation notes in an EVT effective value test compliant way. We take less
matching adjustment credit in our solvency II balance sheet, and we've increased our SCR.
This reduced our excess own funds at year-end by GBP219 million in total, and the
reduction in MA also reduces our property sensitivity.
As I mentioned earlier, there were still some unfinished business, which we estimate will
cost approximately GBP80 million. Although, it isn't exactly comparing like, as I mentioned
before, the revised total cost of complying with the new regulatory rules we now estimate
Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

at GBP299 million and that compares to the GBP350 million, which we'd indicated at the
time of the interims.

FINAL

So again, the process is not yet complete, but we feel we have significantly greater clarity.
Now that the note restructuring has been completed, and given that we've already faced
up to a greater proportion of the ultimate cost.
And maybe just a quick reminder, lifetime mortgages remain an economically attractive
asset class, as well as acting as a partial hedge for longevity risk in our retirement income
book. And what this slide shows is the amount of credit you get for different assets on the
solvency II or regulatory balance sheet. What it shows is the amount of credit we now take
for LTMs in the regulatory balance sheet, has fallen significantly since the introduction of
solvency II, mainly as a result of SS3/17.
So following our construction of the LTM securitization, the MA allowance on lifetime
mortgages, which is the pink bar where you could include the green bar with TMTP relief.
But either way, it's broadly in line with infrastructure loans now, and only slightly hard in our
corporate bonds. Although, it should add that typically the MA benefit in pound terms is
still greater on lifetime mortgages, and that's a function of their longer duration, you earn
that credit that yield pickup for longer, right?
So with that, I'll hand over to Andy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Thank you, David. And good morning, everybody. I'm very pleased to be able to stand
here today as the CFO of Just Group. I joined shortly after new year, and it's been quite a
long wait since I was announced in June, so I'm pleased to be finally on board. But before
I move on to the numbers, I just wanted to say a few words on why I decided to join the
group and what I've found since coming on board.
I've always recognized and being impressed by Just's ability to compete in the retirement
marketplace. The regulatory challenges impacting on the business have been well
documented. But from the outside, I could see that the fundamentals of the business
were robust. And the growing in-force surpluses would lead to positive capital generation,
provided that new business capital strain was kept under control and the costs were
contained.
I strongly believe that the market and in particular customers, benefit from the presence
of Just in a retirement marketplace that can lack innovation and to an extent competition.
I'm observing since last summer and more recently since joining, I've been hugely
impressed by the progress the group has made during 2019. The energy and
determination they've shown in overcoming its challenges and succeeding.
I've really appreciated the warm welcome I've had from the whole team, and hope to be
able to get up to speed quickly and add my contribution going forwards.

Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

So turning then to the 2019 financial results. I want to focus first on the capital journey, and
I've come from a place where capital was key and completely share David's focus on this,
as his number one priority. This quarter fall shows the development of our solvency II
surplus over 2019. I'll go into more detail in the following slides, but first let's pick out a
few of the more important numbers.
So, our opening surplus was GBP577 million, and a capital coverage ratio of a 136%. And
as you can see, we would have finished the year with a surplus GBP390 million higher on a
156% ratio, before making the regulatory changes that David has described. Those
changes have taken our ratio back to a 141%, but that's still 5 points higher than at the
start of the year. But not yet at the level where I would feel satisfied.
I'm very pleased to be able to point to the positive contribution from organic capital
generation in 2019, with this contributing two percentage points to the ratio in the year.
And this is included the accelerated release of DB longevity capital via reinsurance. The
economic movements for the full-year similar to those at the half year, with the housing
market performing largely in line with our long-term assumptions in the second-half.

Bloomberg Transcript

And you should already have been aware of the capital issuance, which includes GBP125
million of new Tier 2 debt issued in the autumn, net of the GBP37 million repaid following
the October tender offer. But this bar doesn't include the GBP63 million redemption of
Tier 2 debt, where we announced our intention to call a couple of weeks ago, and that will
happen at the end of this month.
But now let's go into further detail on the organic capital generation and how we see this
developing?
This slide shows it's key components that make up the organic capital generation. We see
this as a measure of capital generation achieved by the business, before the impacts of
regulatory change, market movements and any capital raising. It includes the ability of the
business to generate capital surplus from management actions. The GBP36 million of
organic capital generate in 2019, is obviously a significant improvement on the GBP165
million consumed in 2018, with a huge benefit coming from the reduction in strain.
Our in-force surplus grew strongly, reflecting growth in the book and higher investment
margin unwind with further growth expected as we move forwards. Although, it's slightly
lower rates, I would expect high-single digits in future.
The increase in finance cost you can see here mainly reflects the RT1 coupons. Although,
note these are on a paid basis and will be around GBP14 million higher in 2020 after tax
creating a small headwind.
Expenses outside of acquisition and maintenance allowances are similar to last year, and
there's more still to do here. But good progress has made -- has been made in 2019. And
the acquisition cost overall was fallen by GBP2 million to GBP18 million, which included the
GBP16 million of acquisition cost savings David outlined earlier, offset obviously by the
reduction in volumes.
Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

We have further savings to come on a targeting the elimination of this GBP18 million
expense overrun by the end of 2021. I would expect development and non-recurring costs
to be at similar levels in 2020, as we continue to reshape the business and finalize the
impacts from regulatory change.
The other management actions section includes a number of items, but most importantly,
the GBP89 million gain from the DB reinsurance deal that we discussed at the interims.
This number is a little lower than we previously indicated, in part because GBP12 million of
the benefit has been included in the new business trend line relating to the first-half of
the year. The GBP38 million other cost in this line includes a number of modeling and
bases changes.
And note that in 2020, this line will include the benefit of management actions such as the
no NEG hedging we've announced today, and potentially further management actions
such as increased longevity reinsurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you can see from this slide, this highlights the dynamic has driven the improved organic
capital generation picture, which is impressive both in terms of the quantum and the
speed of the changes delivered to reshape the business in 2019. So, as you can see from
the intersect of the two lines in the second-half of 2019, the margins and capital being
released from the back book now exceed new business strain and other costs including
interest.
And note within this, we're already pricing and computing the new business strain based
on 13% volatility and 1% deferment rate for lifetime mortgages, even though, we don't
get reserve fully on this basis.
So as you can see, we're already living within our means in half to 2019, but it wasn't by
very much, and we've got further to go particularly on the cost agenda. We're committed
to drive -- to continue to drive further progress, to extend the positive yields on this chart,
with the aim of this will then start to give us real choices on how to deploy surplus capital
in future.
Now, let's have a look at the non-operating items. Firstly, the property variance of GBP101
million. This represents the solvency impact of flat house prices seen through the
portfolio, largely during the first-half of last year, compared to our long-term 3.8% per
annum house price inflation assumption. In the second-half of the year, prices broadly
tracked our long-term expectations. A GBP96 million out of the GBP101 million cost for the
year arose in the first-half.
Other economic variances for the year totaled GBP45 million. Also little change from halfyear, comprising small positives from corporate bond default experience and a small
negative on interest rates. Remember half-year we told you, we've been proactive in
hedging our sensitivity to interest rates. 2020, will be the final year of the accelerated
TMTP amortization with GBP25 million expected this year after the GBP42 million in 2019.

Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

And then on to regulatory change. So the interims as David mentioned we've flagged
GBP70 million of regulatory change. But through the restructuring of the LTM securitisation
notes at year-end, we've chosen to take more of the impact of this change upfront. The
cost here of GBP219 million includes meeting an EVT test, parameterized at 13% volatility
and 0.67% deferment rate within the matching adjustment. And with a level of SCR that
we believe will cover the allowance for EVT in stress, required under PS19/19 by the end of
2021.
A key benefit is, obviously that we believe now we only have GBP80 million of expected
further regulatory headwind ahead of us, in order to achieve the full requirements of the
new regulations for LTMs by the end of 2021.
So there's still much work to do, including with the PRA to flow the new regulatory
requirements into our capital model. Overall, we've achieved improved clarity on the
impact of regulatory change and a lower expected cost.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on then to the sensitivities. We're focusing first on interest rates, given the
significant movements we've seen in the market year-to-date. Our interest rate sensitivity
on the chart is shown here at year-end, and demonstrates the impact -- the effect of
hedges that we had in place at the time. As a general principle, we looked hedged the
impact of long-term interest rates on our solvency II excess own funds position. But since
year-end, we actually increased our interest rate hedging to continue to minimize our
solvency II capital exposure to interest rates, particularly given the extent of the market
movements, which are reduced tenure rates by over 50 basis points.
Credit spreads have also helped marginally as you can see from the slight positive
sensitivity. And early redemptions are only a minor factor. And as you know, we don't
disclose an equity sensitivity, as we don't hold any equities.
But as we disclosed a half-year '19, our largest exposure is to UK housing. And you'll
notice here that our hit to the capital ratio from a 10% fall in property prices is now
estimated at 15 percentage points, compared to the 20 points at interims. This is a very
encouraging reduction resulting mainly from the regulatory changes to our balance sheet,
less matching adjustment benefit now included. And there's also some benefit from no
NEG hedging tariffs, including the trade we've completed recently. Further hedging trades
will reduce the sensitivity more.
Now to-date, the housing markets performed well post-election, but we should recognize
in the current environment the outlook for house prices must be uncertain. On
policyholder mortality, we can see that reduction of 5% would affect us by ten percentage
points. This is also come down since the interims due impart through our increased use of
reinsurance.
On this next slide, we bring our solvency coverage ratio up-to-date by combining the
three key non-economic developments since the year-end, with our estimate of
movement from the business and due to the financial markets.

Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

Firstly, the key non-economic developments. As many of you expected, we've called the
remaining Tier 2 notes, with that -- with this action, not in our reported solvency position at
year-end, but very much included in the way that we look at solvency. But since year-end,
we've obviously completed two significant deals, which David outlined earlier. Specifically
the no NEG hedge and the DB partner reinsurance, and that obviously has a full-point
benefit.
Along this slide, we then brought the picture fully up-to-date by including the first couple
of months of normal business, as well as all of the market moves up to the 10 of March.
The combinations of two have reduced our coverage ratio by only 1%. As a result of our
active hedging on interest rates impact on our solvency position from the significant rate
falls we've seen to-date, and from other economic and market moves is actually a very
minimal change to our capital coverage ratio, delivering an even better result than the
year-end sensitivity we would suggest. So, factoring all of these changes against the
reported year-end position, we'll produce a coverage ratio of 141% today.
As I mentioned earlier, we'd -- I'd really like to improve this ratio further. On absolute
significant unhedged market movements, we'd expect to see this growth further over
2020 and beyond, as we continue to grow our organic capital generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving now to IFRS. Our adjusted operating profit before tax rose by 4% to GBP219
million, as a decline in underlying operating profit and a higher finance charge were more
than offset by positive assumption changes.
Our underlying operating profit fell by 16% to GBP266 million, with the 18% increase inforce operating profit not enough to offset the 25% decline in new business profit. The
new business profit decline reflects the 12% from the retirement income volumes and
lower margins as flagged in the results last year.
The operating variances and assumption changes were GBP42 million positive this year,
and this included the GBP10 million pre-tax cost of the DB reinsurance we flagged at the
interims. We're also positive at elements from maintenance cost reductions and from LTM
redemption charges, where our positive basis change as offset negative experience
variance. There were minimal longevity variances or changes.
Our other group company losses are now declining, and the pace of this decline should
increase given management's focus.
Finance costs on this slide have increased as a result of the RT1, which will add another
GBP11 million in 2020, as we recognize the full annual coupon cost.
Looking on this slide then, our new business and in-force profit in more detail. As we
previously guided, our new house price inflation volatility assumptions could -- together
with a change in LTM duration and backing ratio, result in a roughly two percentage point
drag on IFRS new business margin compared to the full-year 2018. In the second-half,
combination of pricing improvements and expense control has resulted in a slight uplifting
margins compared to half one.
Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

Going forward, we would expect a similar margin level. And we'll maintain our pricing
discipline and would hope for some growth in new business in 2020, absent any
significant impacts from coronavirus.
Our in-force operating profit increased by 17%, similar to the increase in half-year. This was
driven by the growth in the in-force book and better returns on our surplus assets, which
increase following the March capital rates. So overall, are pleasing in-force result.
Although, I would expect future growth to be a lower double-digits going forwards.
Moving then to the below the line items. So, although, operating profit rose only slightly
although there was quite a dramatic swing in total profit, as a result of investment
variances. So much shows that this record year for Just IFRS profit before tax. GBP369
million 2019 compared to the loss of GBP86 million in 2018.

David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thank you very much, Andy. And again, really good to have you on Board today.
And I'd like to start my conclusions by just spending a moment to recap on, why we do,
what we do at JUST?
And our purpose statement that we show here on the slide is a really good reminder of
why JUST exists. We help people achieve a better later life. Every colleague across the
group contributes to this purpose, whether they're directly serving customers or providing
support someone else who is doing that. We're helping retail savers, homeowners,
pension trustees and clients of our corporate customers, we'd advice a solution that help
them to achieve peace of mind in later life; and at times like this, it truly appreciates you
to just how important that is. The value of locking into certainties never been greater.
Our group businesses have leadership positions in attractive segments of the retirement
market. We achieved this leadership by investing to innovate and by deploying our great
customer insights. This ensures, we are able to fulfill our purpose by providing great value
and outstanding service to customers. And it's recognized in the awards we have won
across all sections of the later life market in 2019, and just a few of those are provided on
the slide.
We continue to invest in new disrupted solutions albeit selectively given our focus on
managing costs. Two examples of that we're pausing two new developments this year.
One, is to help close the financial advice gap for people in middle Britain with much more
modest pension savings. And the second is a highly innovative solution to deliver
guaranteed income to retail investors, who've manage their portfolios on modern
investment platforms. So, we continue to invest in the future to ensure we can fulfill our
purpose, a purpose which motivates me and over a thousand of our colleagues every day.
Now, you'll know Investors are increasingly interested in how Boards are addressing
environmental, social and governance issues. At JUST, we have a very active ESG agenda.
So, first of all on sustainable investing, we consider key ESG factors in our investment,

Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

analysis and filtering. And for some time, we have excluded new investments into
tobacco, and we have seized making investments in upstream oil and gas companies.

FINAL

Our ESG credentials are evidence in the significant investments we've already made in
renewables, such as the Volni [ph] and Hornsea offshore wind farms, as well as
investments in solar and social housing. We were also the first UK ensure to signup to the
UN principles for responsible investments.
Secondly, I'm pleased to report, we've reduce our carbon footprint by 41% in 2019. We've
been building a modern workplace, which has enabled us to provide increased flexibility
for our colleagues, and also reduce our property square footage by roughly 30%.
We've been taking our social purpose to new levels this year by investing in our
communities too. We've been helping older adults get active for a happier, healthier life
through our new walking sports program JUST get active. JUST are raising awareness of
walking sports is an alternative way to introduce exercise into people's lives as they get
older, and guide them to opportunities to get involved.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally, we've making good progress on diversity as part of our governance agenda,
which you can see on the slide.
So, before we end the formal part of the presentation, I just want to underline a few key
points. First, we have made really significant progress on improving the organic capital
efficiency of the business, and I want to ensure that positive capital generation is
sustainable.
Second, this progress on organic capital generation, means we are confident in achieving
capital self-sufficiency earlier and previously expected.
And thirdly, we've accelerated the recognition of the regulatory costs of the change to
the new EVT requirements.
We take all these things together, this means that the absence of any significant
unhedged market movements, we expect the capital coverage ratio to gradually grow
from this point.
We've taken decisive action over the last nine-months. I hope you'll agree, we've been
doing whatever it takes to get us onto a sustainable capital trajectory. So, our message is
the transformation is underway, but there's still more to do.
Now, before we go to questions, I just want to say a few words about our Chair, Chris
Gibson-Smith, who's at the front there, who has informed us obvious intention to retire as
Chair of the Board, as soon as we have identified a suitable successor.

Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

On behalf of the Board, I'd like to thank, Chris for his leadership, he's provided to JUST
since we were formed in 2016. He has brought great insights to the role gained over his
rich and varied career. And personally, I've thoroughly enjoyed working closely with Chris
over the past seven years. He has steered the group through some very challenging
times, and he genuinely takes our best wishes into the future. Thank you, Chris.

FINAL

So, with that, who'd like to ask the first question?

Questions And Answers
A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Question And Answer

Q - Charlie Beeching

{BIO 21296314 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, it's Charlie Beeching, KBW. Three questions, please. Firstly, what would be the
expected benefit paid to the solvency position on the no NEG transactions that have
already taken place assuming regulatory approval of the MA adjustment? And as a followup of to that, on the other items line within organic surplus generation, why is the trend
flat there? Assuming you would assume a benefit from the no NEG equity you're hedging
alongside further longevity reinsurance. Is this implying a further drag from methodology
and modeling changes going forward?
Secondly, would you expect to receive the dividend in full year '20, assuming given the
improved capital outlook and at what level? And thirdly, what are the drop to embedded
value disclosure? And can you give us a figure for -- can you give us a figure for the yearend? Thank you.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Great, okay. So I'll actually split that into four questions. We've got the question on further
potential benefit from no NEG on the MA, which I'll ask Guy to pick up. Andy, I'm further
thinking you get the next three, which is the other line in OCG, any statements we want to
make about the dividend and EV disclosure. Guy, do you want to go first?

A - Guy Horton
Sure. So the two negative hedges we have done quite sensitive, they're quite
commercially sensitive. So you'll see that we don't disclose this one by itself. So we think
we've taken a prudent approach on both. We do think there's more to come, but we
don't disclose where it is, I'm afraid.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

So, picking up your other three questions. I think in terms of the other line or management
actions line within the capital generation, we haven't particularly given guidance on what
that will be going forwards. We're obviously looking at further management actions as we
go forwards. The impact of the no NEG equity hedge will go into that line in 2020. So we

Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

are expecting that to be positive from a management action perspective. In terms of
basis changes et cetera, then I would assume there will always be some noise from that,
but I would assume that going forward that would be a net neutral.
Moving on to your second question, so the dividend, in terms of how we're thinking about
the dividend. I think in terms of where we are in the capital journey, we are taking out sort
of first steps really in terms of the capital ratio, started to move in the right direction.
We've moved into positive territory from an organic capital generation perspective, but
we very much want to see ourselves move further along that journey, and see that capital
ratio moving in the right direction, as we move forwards before we would contemplate a
conversation around the dividend.
And in terms of embedded value disclosures, we have dropped those in line with pretty
much all of our peers. I think now have dropped embedded value as a measure. Primarily
because you have a certain number of metrics that you want to try and calculate and run
the business by. So we don't run the business on embedded value, we run the business
very much on -- our lead metric is very much the subject to one, but with the sort of more
or less commercial value flowing through the IFRS numbers.

Q - Charlie Beeching

{BIO 21296314 <GO>}

(Inaudible Question)

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We don't have one that we are disclosing, no.

Q - Charlie Beeching

{BIO 21296314 <GO>}

(Question Inaudible)

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Charlie Beeching

{BIO 21296314 <GO>}

(Question Inaudible)

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

So, sorry, yeah, I saw you looking slightly confused. So there are different elements in
there. Within that line you have management actions, but then you also have any sort of
modeling and basis change. So it's a modeling and basis change element, I would see
being net neutral within that line. We expect positives from management actions.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

(inaudible) slightly even more simple than what you're asking which is the number was 50
in 2019, and we're indicating that it may be broadly of that similar magnitude going
Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

forward allowing for as there's always some uncertainty on the assumption changes. So
we're saying we don't expect the management actions to below 50 in the future or
materially higher, but somewhere in that ballpark, that you will have some noise from
assumption changes in any given year.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Hi, Tom Hamilton [ph], Barclays. Three questions for me. So, on the DB partnering. I was
just wondering, if you can kind of talk to us about how the economics work, and kind of
how the strain works, and kind of particular interest in the (inaudible) says fees and
success base?
And then kind of on the NNEG reinsurance and the remaining capital drags. I just wonder if
you could explain to us how we should think about the HPI insensitivity trajectory in the
next few years? And then lastly, just any kind of update on thinking around your debt
stack. Thank you.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

I missed the third question. Say that again.

Q - Analyst
So just questions on anything here on your debt stack going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Debt stack, thank you, right. Okay. So I'll take the DB partnering question, and I'll let Andy
pick up the other two. So as we talked about it in the past on DB partnering, fundamental
thing is that we just are the party that's transacting with the pension scheme. So the
pension scheme has the peace of mind of transacting with a PRA regulated company.
And then typically, we've talked in the region of, excuse me, 90% of the risks being
seeded to reinsurance partner, and we retain 10%. So let me talk about the 90%. The 10%
will be just as it is normally. The 90% will get seeded and we effectively get a paid fee
upfront. The fee reflects the value of our franchise that's allowing us to be active in the
market, origination fee, et cetera. We also get paid in administration fees, it's with
administered business going forward. And we pass on all the investment, all the longevity
risk to our reinsurance partner, and we don't need to hold capital for those risks on our
balance sheet.
So in terms of the dynamics, what's left is we get on that 90%, a fee income upfront,
which we're not going to disclose the ratio, the percentage, because as Guy said, that's
commercially sensitive, but it's meaningful. We're not doing this for a few basis points. We
will get a fee upfront, and that will effectively be capital generative. You need to set aside
a small amount of capital for counterparty risk, the risk that the reinsurer defaults, but that
would be a small proportion of the fee that we earn, and it is a capital generative source
of fee going forward. And that's it, day one and IFRS profit, until IFRS 17.

Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

FINAL

In terms of your other two questions, I think, Guy will probably take the second one. In
terms of answering your third in terms of how we're thinking about the debt stack. You'll
see in the pack, in the appendix. I think it's Slide 31, that indicates our current stack. It also
shows that we have got up to GBP250 million of headroom within the Tier 2 element of
that stack. But at the moment, the way I'm thinking about where we are is, we clearly want
to be on a positive capital journey going forward.
We need to look at the extent to which we should be using management actions versus
debt, in order to do that, we need to look at whether the economic impacts hits us as we
go through the next couple of years. So it's useful to have that in the kit bag. We don't -we are not planning to use it imminently, and I'm very keen to understand our ability to
generate capitals through management actions which quite often come with a better cost
of capital than the debt would.

A - Guy Horton

Bloomberg Transcript

To your second question, I'm going to ask you to perhaps give me more clarity on what
part of it you want. But let me use, perhaps what was part of your question to follow up
on a very brief answer I gave before. It might be helpful to note that, I think we have
obtained the majority of the benefit that we expect. So it's not that there's multiples of it
still to emerge in terms of the benefit of the NEG hedges we have done, does that
perhaps give a better sense of scale of some sort. To your question about the remaining
capital drag, can I understand more, so I can answer it well?

Q - Analyst
(Question Inaudible)

A - Guy Horton
So there's two elements that come from these NNEG hedges. One is by releasing capital
on the balance sheet to allow for risks that could emerge in the future. And the second
piece is how they improve the resilience of the balance sheet as HPI does change. So
that's why we in particular, like some of these management actions, that they free up
capital as well as reducing your sensitivity. So as -- I think, that therefore relates to the first
part that talks about the majority of the benefit being there. So it's not a multiple still to
come.
So these things do play and it does. It is important to remember that we've done GBP900
million out of GBP6.5 billion. So this is not going to change the balance sheet overnight.
You need to do more of these if you really want to get that sensitivity way down. So we've
done well so far. So then that talks a bit to the sensitivity, it is reducing it, but it's reducing
it in sort of scale of the fact that we've done about 15% of our LTMs.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Go ahead, Barrie, yeah.

Page 15 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. It's Barrie Cornes, Panmure Gordon. I got three questions as well, please. First
of all, I think you're giving guidance on new business margin going forward. But can you
just tell me what the impact of low interest rates would be on the new business margin?
And secondly, the impact, is there any impact of possible benefit of a changes to risk
margin going forward that have been talked about. And thirdly, the credit default reserve,
which I think at the half year was about GBP359 million. Could you tell me where that is at
year-end, please?

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Okay. So I'll speak to the risk margin point, and Andy, I'll let you pick up the new business
margin and credit default. So, on risk margin, like I said for some time the PRA have been
indicating that they might like that revisited and reduced, and kind of I'd say, the sounds
coming out seem to be getting slightly louder on that. But in reality, we're not holding our
breath for that. We've not factored that into our planning in the future whatsoever. So for
us it would be very much -- it'd be very much a kind of a cherry on top, because these
things can take time, and there's no guarantee that they'll happen.
So, we think it will be a helpful development, not just for our own personal balance sheet,
but I think in terms of getting better value to customers, because it's a very expensive
drag at the moment. But as I said, it's not a core part of our planning for the future. Andy?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

So in terms of, I guess, sort of the impact of the low interest rates we're seeing at the
moment, we're not seeing a massive impact in terms of certainly having an impact on our
margins, in terms of how we're pricing the new business. We still need to see whether
there's any impact on actual new business volumes from customer activity changing
through the coronavirus.
In terms of your third question, on the credit reserve, I don't have the figure to hand right
now, but from memory the number at year-end is very similar to that half year number. I
think it's around 370, but we can get back to you with the exact number.

Q - Nicholas Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Nick Johnson from Numis. I have three questions, please. First, on the
guidance to be organic capital generative in 2020 and beyond, how that differ to the
objective to be capital self-sufficient by '22? Is it one the same thing or is it slightly
different?
A question to Andy, you said, 141% not yet at level that you're satisfied with. Could you
possibly give some sort of indications of what sorts of level you will be satisfied at? I
appreciate it's difficult in terms of sort of way need to be to have other choices for use of
capital. And then on COVID-19, so new business volumes, just wonder if you could

Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

comment to be seeing any impact yet, and if it worsens, what we do to mitigate? Thank
you.

FINAL

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Okay. And obviously, Andy, I'll let you speak about your levels of satisfaction. I'll pick up the
other two, and yet -- and because I was the one who spoke about it in the past. And when
we talk about capital self-sufficiency in the past, we've always talked in terms of, are we
generating capital surplus, and is the ratio improving. And you could argue that by the kind
of narrow definition where at that point, that we've reached the turning point and are
capital self-sufficient.
As I said in my comments, in reality, we're not there, and I would say a further layer to add
on top of that is you're really capital self-sufficient, when the level of that surplus being
generated is giving you real choices on how you should deploy it, making real choices
between, for example the question on dividend versus future new business growth
trajectory. We're not at that point yet. But what I have said is we're more confident that
we're going to get there sooner than we were last time we spoke. I hope that's clear.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on coronavirus, we could obviously talk about that for quite some time, but I'll try and
keep it fairly short. And first of all, your question, Nick, was around commercially have it
impact us. And at the moment, the story [ph] to tell, what we're not seeing clear
indications that this changes in our markets, but I think it's safe to assume that the retail
market will slow down. So both guaranteed income for Life and LTMs will slow down, if we
get into more extreme social distancing measures.
People just aren't going to have appointments with financial advisors. To make these big
decisions, you need to meet a financial advisor. Some people might do it over the phone,
but not many, and not many in that demographic. So we expect it to be slow down. I'd
highlight that the need for these solutions doesn't go away. So it's more of a deferral
rather than I think a complete lost opportunity, but that's why, Andy had some words of
caution in guidance for this year, it's too early to tell.
I think it's a slightly different story in the DB de-risking market. The trustees of pension
schemes are required to continue to oversee the pension schemes effectively, and
they're all on de-risking journeys, they're all on funding plans and they just need to
continue to run the pension scheme much like a Board needs to run a company. And
therefore, I would expect that we will continue to see good levels of activity in the DB
market. There will be some schemes that may slow down. There may be some schemes
whose deficits get impacted by equity market falls, and have to slow down some of their
de-risking decisions. But the vast majority of those who are looking at buy-in or buy-out
have already de-risked their investment strategies with respect to pensioners they're
going in to buy-in, and we'll have hedged largely or completely against interest rates and
inflation. So I expect maybe a bit of slowdown in DB, but not as much.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Sorry, I need to answer that.

Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yes.

FINAL

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

I think the one other thing which was -- your question is really about the 1.41%, and why we
-- why am I saying I'm not satisfied with that. And I guess the -- for me the answer on this
is, I don't think that we should focus too much purely on a ratio, and we can't get overly
carried away with that. For me, what I would look at is very much the ability of the business
to generate capital as it goes forward, so being able to do that confidently over time is
important, but also looking at the sensitivity on the balance sheet. So what risks are we
running and what shocks could impact on us? And it's almost a combination of those that
then almost generates your confidence in terms of the capital level that you're at. So it's
very much building that in and I think we need -- we've made good progress in 2019, but
we need to see that continue into the future, and we need --

Q - Nicholas Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

(Questions Inaudible)

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

No. And we'll take two more in the room, because we've got online, we'll go Andrew
there and then Oliver, and then we'll go on to online

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean for Autonomous. Can I ask three questions? The first
one is a break in record -- credit migration. Could you give us the sensitivity on credit
migrations by the fix [ph] I may lost this. Secondly, you've talked an awful lot about
benefits from de-risking, but I'd like to know a bit more in monetary terms about the costs
of doing it. So cutting the strain on new business, you've shorten duration. What is the fall
in the future cash generation, undiscounted from reducing the strain? Secondly, what is
the cost of longevity reinsurance, as you pass away the potential profits on that?
Thirdly, I'd suppose the DB partnering, you're not going to answer, but also then, finally
the cost of no NEG hedging, in terms of how that hits you. And then the third question
related to that is, how much more no NEG hedging do you want to do on your LTMs?
You've got GBP5.5 billion still there, and how much DB partnering would you like to do?

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

That's quite a collection. So I'll take the credit migration question, since I'm the one you
keep asking, and I'll talk a little bit about how much more no NEG or DB partnering, we
might think about. And in terms of the cost of de-risking, Guy, I think you can have a first
go those ones.
So you'll be pleased to know, we actually have run to credit migration scenario, Andrew.
We didn't publish it. No offense, but I don't think it's a particularly meaningful one, but

Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

we're happy to share it.
The reason I think it is particularly meaningful is the scenario we run is that, you wake up
one morning and 20% of your credit portfolio has downgraded by a big letter, so, AA to
A, A to BBB. And the reason I'm mentioning is particularly realistic is because we're
entering that type of tariff, we're entering a kind of a real shock now, and we along with all
our peers are I'm sure looking at our portfolios, and working out where we think soft
spots are. But therefore, for transparency and comparison, the impact on our group ratio
would be about 13%, 1-3, of a single letter downgrade on 20% of portfolio
instantaneously.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

(Question Inaudible)

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. And then how much more no NEG and how much DB partnering do we plan to do?
So a no NEG, we absolutely would like to do more. We've done GBP900 million so far, it's
about GBP5.5 billion, and we would like to move on to further transactions. We're not
going to kind of put a number on that at this stage. It is very much a pioneering at the
edge of developments here.
We believe these are not just -- these are the first two transactions of their type to be
done, because they're real long-term risk transfer, 30 years plus. And there are a couple
of parties out there, who seem interested in providing that cover, but it's not a whole raft
at this stage. So I wouldn't want to create a misleading level of certainty over how much
that might be in the future, but we certainly want to go after more, Andrew, and we will
be going after more, and the parties that we've talked to have expressed further
appetite, so hopefully more.
DB partnering is something we would like to become -- it'll still be a minority of a source
of our profits, but it's one which will become meaningful over times where we'd like to
get it to. There's a huge opportunity, in excess of GBP250 million transactions, we are
very, very -- we write very, very few transactions there at the moment. So we really would
like to tap into that market.
Guy, would you like to go to cost of de-risking?

A - Guy Horton
Yeah. So on Page165, in the financial statements, we give the profile of what we think the
Solvency II profits look like versus the strain. So I think with Page 165 of the financial
statements. I know it's quite towards the back, it just means it's fairly I think transparent
there, but I would note that I don't think there's a big economic cost coming from it. The
duration piece is not a big piece, it's just part of an overall part of positioning in the
market, where what's the price elasticity of the market, and where can you price, how do
you combine your ingredients like reinsurance and asset mix with that. So I don't think

Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

FINAL

there's a huge strain that comes from what we're doing. But you -- I'm not sure how
comparable, it's the past, but Page 165 has a lot of detail.
The cost of longevity reinsurance and the cost of NNEG hedging, as I alluded to before,
two benefits, one is what's the implied cost of capital, and the second one is the three
resilience it gives you as well on top, the fact that you are now less exposed to risk. So
putting aside the second part and assuming that their collateral benefit that has no value
that we take credit for, then we still find the implied cost of capital attractive relative to all
the other costs of capital from other sources that we have. So that's one of our key
metrics. When we do any of these transactions is we make sure that it washes its own
face on the surface in terms of the implied cost of capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

What do we pay for the capital that it reduces from our balance sheet or removed from
our balance sheet. How much more do we want to do? It depends on -- for longevity
reinsurance, which is more of a commodity. It depends what kind of pricing we can find. So
we're always looking at where is the next most attractive piece to do. And we've looked
at all of our management actions, not just from what's most financially attractive, but what
is easiest to digest from a regulatory point of view. And what is most available in the
market, and what is easiest to do with our systems.
So the idea is, we're trying to be very pragmatic in terms of choosing the next series of
actions. That's why, hopefully, you will see that we are delivering actions in an order. It
doesn't mean we do one thing then move on to the next. There are various actions at
various stages of incubation, so that you can produce a steady stream of these things,
and it gives you flexibility in your negotiations with people that you are not reliant on that
action, at this point in time, in order to achieve something.
So, the longevity reinsurance is what you might call more a pragmatic kind of approach,
where you see what you can find. In the case of NNEG hedging, that's a little more unique
and bespoke. And therefore, we would like to do more and we'll see what capacity we
can find. I think everyone question whether we can do a second one. Hopefully, the proof
is now there, but it is a front Tier market. So therefore you can never assume that it's
around to rely on, but we would certainly have hopes in that regard.
I do want to remind what we don't -- when we hedge GBP900 million of LTMs, it's not
every pound of risk of on them is hedged. It's a partial hedge. Just as reinsurance is also a
partial hedge of longevity. So in terms of that, it doesn't mean that we have fully hedged
15% of our LTMs.So it does mean we'd like to do more, because it certainly seems that
there's more could be done 15% hardly it seems like the place to stop. Have I answered
all your questions?

Q - Analyst
(Question Inaudible)

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yes. Right. Thank you.
Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

FINAL

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. And as ever, following Andrew, he sort of mix all the best
questions. But you didn't answer it very full. So I'm going to ask it again in a different way.
So the question was what is the cost of the longevity reinsurance, and the NNEG hedging?
You used to say that it was too expensive, relative to an enormously expensive equity
issue, and an enormously expensive debt issue. So is it now cheaper than debt, or is it still
more expensive? Question one.
And question two. Again, this question has been asked in a couple of ways. But when you
say that you expect the solvency ratio to be moving gently ahead, we're trying to work
out, what is actually assumed within that number. As far as I can judge, it doesn't assume
any payment of the dividend. It does assume positive management actions. Does it
include debt issuance, as the balance sheet grows? So can you just give us a little bit
more of an idea here as to what we should be thinking about in underlying terms? What I
would call genuinely organic sustainable free capital generation including cost overruns
and everything else.
Third question, very little one. The fee that you're getting upfront from the -- which one is
it, the DB partnering. Is that going into the new business profit margin in IFRS? And is that
also netting off the new business strain in your assumptions?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Okay. So, I'll say Oliver, I'll have a go at the first question rather than Guy repeat himself
on the longevity and the no NEG, and I'll let Andy pick up the other two. Well, you can
always add to what I say, you can always add to what I say.
So on the -- the cost of longevity reinsurance, I don't think we've ever said that's
prohibitively expensive, we've always use longevity reinsurance. And I think it is fair to say
that the economics of longevity reinsurance have improved over time though. And as
interest rates have fallen, the amount of risk margin you need to hold per unit of longevity
risk has gone up significantly, very, very significantly. So the economics of longevity
reinsurance have improved, but they've always been a part of our business model and
always been a factor. But that is where we're seeing more and more of it taking place,
Oliver, because it is actually representing better value for money, as well as our focus on
capital.
And on NNEG hedging, the reason that's kind of fallen more into a sweet spot, because it
is an area we've looked around at in the past, is a combination of two factors. And when
we've looked at in the past with other counterparties, the economics didn't stack up, and
so the economics have improved. So terms have improved, but also again from a capital
perspective and I'll just highlight that the amount of capital i.e., regulatory both provisions
and SER, we need to set aside for this risk has gone up significantly. And therefore with a
focus on capital, rather than IFRS, the sense and logic of doing these transactions that
whole dynamic has changed significantly.

Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

And (inaudible) some time, I will move on to Andy, with the other two questions, because I
do want to give online people a chance.

FINAL

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

So I think in terms of the solvency ratio, you probably described it reasonably well in terms
of moving gently upwards, going forwards is probably how we would see that at the
moment, but obviously, with an objective to actually increase that trajectory if we can. And
that if we can, a lot of that depends on what we can do through management actions, to
actually boost what we see as a capital contribution from the business, absent
management actions, as you saw on David's chart, will has a natural upward trajectory. So
that will continue to grow as we go forwards, absent management actions.
The question is, how many management actions can we then add on top of that, that will
increase the rate of improvement of the capital ratio. In terms of your question on the DB
partnering fee, yes, that does net off new business strain, in the Solvency II and IFRS.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

So Steve, questions from the webcast?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stephen Lowe

{BIO 4793133 <GO>}

Thank you. So, Gordon did ask three, from the RBC. We've answered two of them. But
unsurprisingly, Gordon's got question on mortality. Why haven't you moved to the 2018
improvement table? What smoothing factors are you using, 7%, 7.5% or 8%? And is there
a gain in the base table?
And then one question from Louise Miles at Morgan Stanley. Are you concerned about the
potential increase in prepayment risk for lifetime mortgages, given the impact in
mortgage rates from the Bank of England's base rate cut yesterday? So we start with
those.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Okay. Sso I'll take the second one. Guy, do you want to go on the longevity first, though?

A - Guy Horton
Sure. This moving factor, we disclose it somewhere in there, it might be 934 or might be
another note, sorry, I can't remember, but it's the standard one now that we use when we
first introduced it wasn't the standard, but now I think it's either standard or slightly more
conservative than it. It seem like 2018, most people haven't gone through , seem like
2019 is now out, and suggested maybe it was a little bit zigging and zagging, if you went
to it.
We keep an eye on what's happening in 2020, and obviously, it's a strange time. So we're
comfortable with what we have. And we don't we don't particularly like to chase the latest
one, and I think most others do the same thing. So that should come as smoothing. If it's

Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

not in the disclosures somewhere, then I'm happy to release it. But off the top of my
head, I can't quite remember which (inaudible)?

FINAL

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Okay. So concerns about prepayment risk, with base rates being cut. That's not a
particular concern, and the reason being what drives the rates on lifetime mortgages is
long-term risk-free rates, and also to extent credit spreads. Because as an asset
allocation decision, you're looking at what are the yield you can earn on other assets.
So in the round, obviously we've seen risk-free rates come off a bit, that could itself drive
a bit of a prepayment risk. A little bit of re-broking. And I think to be honest, that been in
the numbers for a while. We've had rates gradually drifting down over time, over the past
couple of years, and actually credit spreads have gone out slightly, which made slightly
dampen that down. So it's something we keep a very close eye on, but not a particular
concern in terms of short-term change in the dynamics. And certainly, the base rate itself
has minimal impact. Whether any on the web?

A - Stephen Lowe

{BIO 4793133 <GO>}

Thanks. Maybe there have been a large number of questions. So thank you. I think most of
them have been answered. Just one final one, David, from Gul Ahmed at Tideway [ph].
You mentioned incentives to align interests of employees to the right organic capital
generation. Can you give some practical examples?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yes. So historically, both our short-term incentive plans i.e., annual bonuses and our longterm incentive plans would have been based off in the short-term it would have been very
much driven off IFRS metrics, cost metrics, in terms of financials. We've now very much
waited at towards capital metrics. So organic capital generation is the dominant factor of
our S TIP, and also in our L TIP, it is much more of a balance now between capital and total
shareholder return. So that's what's behind those statements.
So, look, thank you very much. I know you're all probably incredibly busy with what's going
on in the market. So thank you very much for you interest today. Thank you for those of
you who braved it out and came here in person, and we look forward to seeing you at
quarter interims. Thank you very much.
The Event has Ended

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
Page 23 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2020-03-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 24 of 24

