Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

Q1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Edi Schmid, Chief Underwriting Officer
Guido Furer, Group Chief Investment Officer
John Dacey, Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Brahin, Head Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Paris Hadjiantonis , Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst
Vikram Gandhi, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good morning or good afternoon. Welcome to Swiss Re's first quarter 2020 key financial
data conference call. Please note that today's conference call is being recorded. At this
time, I would like to turn the conference over to John Dacey, CFO. Please go ahead, sir.

John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning or good afternoon to everyone. I'm here today with Eri
Schmid, our Chief Underwriting Officer and Guido Furer, our Chief Investment Officer, who
will provide some insights on the impact of COVID-19 on our underwriting and asset
management operations. Also in the room is Philip Ryan, our Head of Investor Relations
I'd like to start with a brief overview of the key figures we published this morning. Swiss Re
entered the pandemic crisis in a very strong capital position. We also took proactive
measures to protect our investment portfolio and the balance sheet in particular and
Guido will tell you more about it. On the operational side, we were able to support our
clients and partners without disruptions and our activities remain resilient in the current
environment, as the quality of our April renewals testifies.
Nonetheless, COVID-19 related claims weighed on our results. We reported net losses of
225 million for the first quarter of 2020. P&C Reinsurance reported a net income of 61
Page 1 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

million despite the losses related to COVID-19. The business segment was also affected
by large natural catastrophes, slightly above our expected losses, mainly related to the
weather events in Australia and winter storms in Europe. We also experienced some
negative prior year development which somewhat unusually was driven more by premium
true-ups than reserve additions.
Excluding, the burden from COVID-19, P&C Re's normalized combined ratio is in line with
our 97% estimate for the year. Life & Health Reinsurance delivered above its target ROE,
reflecting strong underwriting and investment results with no material underwriting impact
in the quarter from COVID-19. Corporate Solutions reported a net loss of 171 million,
impacted by losses related to COVID-19. Excluding those losses, the combined ratio was
13 percentage points better than one year ago and the normalized combined ratio is
broadly in line with our 105 estimate for the full year. Life Capital results was impacted by
the mark-to-market on our implied holding in Phoenix, partly offset by a hedge on the UK
equity markets.
The underlying business performed broadly as expected. The agreed sale of ReAssure
remains on track and it is expected to close in the third quarter of 2020. The Group
reported a strong return on investment of 3.2% for the first three months of 2020 as an
active portfolio management and hedging significantly offset the impact of financial
market volatility on the asset portfolio. As for the April reinsurance renewals, we are
pleased with the outcome achieved. We saw overall volume growth of 4%, while nominal
prices increased by 8%, with a strong increase on Japan windstorm of more than 50%.
Risk-adjusted price quality year-to-date remained unchanged, reflecting the lower interest
rate environment we are in and material adjustments to loss assumptions, particularly with
respect to certain nat cat exposures.
Moving onto the balance sheets, Swiss Re maintains its industry-leading capital position
with the Group's Swiss Solvency Test ratio comfortably above 200% as of the 31st of
March. As confirmed following our AGM on the 17th of April, and in light of the current
volatility in financial markets and global economic situations, the Board of Directors has
concluded that the share buyback program will not be launched. We will continue to
manage our assets in our capital with utmost foresight allowing us to continue to support
the clients and preserve value for shareholders in these difficult times.
And with this, I turn it over to Edi.

Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Thank you, John, and good morning and good afternoon from my side. As John already
mentioned, our Q1 results were impacted by $476 million of COVID-19 claims. Of these,
$253 million were in P&C Reinsurance and $223 million in Corporate Solutions. These
reflects claims notifications as well as evidence of expected claims materialized as of end
of March. Close to 75% of the reinsurance loss and over 80% of the Corporate Solutions
loss relates to event cancellation, with the remainder mostly coming from business
interruption and smaller amounts from other lines including credit and surety.

Page 2 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

As previously communicated, our total maximum exposure to event cancellation across
2020 is a mid-to high triple digit million amount. This is due toward the first half of the
year in terms of events covered, which means, you would expect to book most of the
losses in the first two quarters. On credit and surety, we would expect further losses as
the recession impact of the crisis becomes more visible in various economies. Economic
development remains highly uncertain, depending, for example, on the effectiveness of
substantial government interventions.
P&C Re has a 10% market share in credit and surety, and Corporate Solutions less than
3% of the overall primary market, both with a high global diversification across the range
of industries. Business interruption remains the most debated area of impact in the
context of the COVID-19 crisis. We reiterate that most property policies require a physical
trigger and among those that offer coverage for non-damage business interruption, not
all would cover pandemic.

Bloomberg Transcript

In a number of markets, insurance had provided non-damage business interruption
expansions that cover pandemic. However, which despite generally tied supplements,
could add up to a material loss burden. We are monitoring the regulatory and legislative
initiatives very closely. We echoed deep concerns voiced by a number of our clients,
peers, and insurance regulators on the danger of potential retrospective changes to
insurance contract wording.
Moving onto Life & Health Re, we had so far not seen a net impact on our business from
increased mortality. For instance, mortality experience in the US is in line with our
expectations in the first quarter. We continue to monitor the trends here very closely,
including any changes in lapse behavior and possible increases in disability claims. I would
mention that a 5% mortality increase in insured mortality over a one year period would
imply additional claims of approximately $400 million for Reinsurance and USD15 million
for Life Capital. The current scale of the impact of COVID on our book is still far from such
a scenario.
A word on our 1-in-200 year pandemic stress. We previously disclosed excess mortality
numbers this figure assumes in key countries, for instance, 200,000 in the US. Globally,
our scenario assumes 14.5 million excess deaths. It should be noted, however, that this
scenario is based on an influenza pandemic, which assumes a very different age fatality
profile to COVID-19. The current virus disproportionally affects all the demographics with
an average age of above 80 for fatalities, while 90% of our Life & Health Re portfolio
covers individuals aged 60 or below.
Overall, there are still a number of key unknowns when it comes to assessing the ultimate
potential impact of COVID-19 on our underwriting portfolio in 2020, the main ones being
the severity and duration of the economic downturn as well as the outcome of litigation
and legislative initiatives around coverage for business interruption. However, we believe
that the impact will be manageable and will represent an earnings event rather than a
capital event for Swiss Re.
With that, let me hand over to Guido.

Page 3 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

Guido Furer
Thank you, Edi, and good morning or good afternoon also from my side. Q1 saw
significant COVID-related market turbulences across basically all asset classes. We
experienced falling equity markets. We saw basically two out of the five biggest daily falls
in Q1, but those were confronted to this widening credit spreads and bond deals which
were folding, all of which are damaging for insurance and reinsurers. However, as John
mentioned, we put in place significant hedges in the early part of the quarter in
anticipation of elevated volatility. These hedges helped us to mitigate negative impacts
and led the gains of roughly $650 million in the first quarter, split evenly across equity and
credit.
Ultimately, we experienced a net valuation loss of approximately $300 million in the first
quarter. Overall, we report an annualized return on investment for the quarter of 3.2%,
which would have been only 0.5% if you would exclude the benefit of the hedges. In
addition, we had a $80 million benefit on hedges for the UK equity market, which partly
offset the negative impact of the Phoenix share price moving in our Life Capital result. As
Reinsurance is classified as held for sale, its investment portfolio is excluded from the
return on investment calculation. These hedges remain in place for the time being and we
continue to manage them dynamically as the situation evolves, while retaining our
cautious outlook.

Bloomberg Transcript

During the last few quarters, we carefully reviewed our investment portfolio for issuers
and sectors particularly sensitive to the ongoing crisis, resulting in a targeted reduction of
credit exposures. This lead to small realized losses on energy, special finance, travel, and
leisure bonds, as examples.
Our ESG investment approach also contributed to the protective and high quality of our
credit positioning. The Group's impairment result was a modest $16 million in the quarter,
reflecting the high quality of our credit portfolio. Given the downward trend in interest
rates, our Group running yields declined to 2.5% from 2.8% at the end of 2019.
With that, I hand over to Philippe who will take us through the Q&A.

Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. And good day to all of you also from my side. So, as usual, before we
start our Q&A, I would like to remind you to please restrict yourselves to two questions
and register again if you have follow-up questions.
So with that, operator, could we please take the first question?

Questions And Answers
Operator
The first question comes from the line from Ivan Bokhmat from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Page 4 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Thank you for letting me ask questions, I've got two. The first one is on
your top line. Could you give us some big picture thoughts on how dependent it is on the
economic activity and where do you see the biggest risks stemming from this downturn?
And the second question, it's just relating to your SST ratio and capital sensitivities. Given
the hedges that had been put in place, could you give us an update of how the
sensitivities may have changed and where should we expect the biggest reduction?
Thank you.

A - Guido Furer
Maybe Edi, you take the first one, and John, the second one.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yeah, happy to comment a bit on the top line. And again, as for many other questions, it is
still early days to come up with views. What is clear, as with the economic downturn, the
lock-down in a number of lines of business, you would expect premium volumes to go
down. If you think about motor lines, if you think about workers comp lines or related to
the payroll, you would think about some of the sales in the Life business. So clearly there
is expected to be an impact on the top line, but we would still expect insurance industry
to not be as impacted as, let's say, GDP overall. So quite an impact, but not as material for
economies overall and quite dependent on the respective lines of business and
segments.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Edi, I might add that in the context of what will be some clear losses coming on both sides
of the balance sheet for many of our reinsurance clients, one could imagine, in the second
half of the year and into 2019, an actual increased demand for reinsurance by those
primary companies as they look to manage their own balance sheets and reduce
potentially volatility of some of those earnings. So I think for well capitalized groups like
Swiss Re, you could imagine the situation where the volatility in the marketplace actually
creates increased demand for some of our capabilities and products in reinsurance.
With respect to the hedges and sensitivities, we've distributed also recently the sort of
baseline that, as you correctly point out, does not include the hedges. What I would say is
that we don't expect these hedges to stay on forever. In fact, as Guido said, we'll look
dynamically to understand when we can withdraw them when we feel that the economic
conditions in the various markets have stabilized and/or likely to move forward in a
sustainable positive direction. As such, we've not provided additional sensitivities just
because they would be temporal in nature and it would be potentially misleading to put
them out there.
What I can say is, the moment we have protected the downside for equity values
substantially, the credit hedges are more partial in the coverage and there is undoubtedly
some basis risks between the portfolio we have and the liquid hedges that we were able
to find reasonable volumes and prices for. On interest rates, generally I think we remain
somewhat exposed with some modest adjustments to those sensitivities. But I think,
Page 5 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

overall, we can say those sensitivities, as we published, are the outer bound of what you
should expect over the next quarters. And depending on Guido's actions, we'll either
come closer to them or stay much more conservative based on our view of the financial
market volatilities.

FINAL

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks, Ivan, for your questions. Can we take the next question, please.

Operator
The next question comes from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi, there. Could I just ask to get a bit more color on the prior year effect in P&C Re? I'm a
bit confused why -- just to go through again the premium adjustments and exactly what
that is adjusting, it's clearly not adjusting exposure. And you're saying all of the prior year
was related to that or what else was the factor? And then I guess the other question. Do
you expect -- I mean, John, you mentioned we could see increased demand and there's
evidence of that already. I guess, a question for Edi. Do you expect mid-year renewals to
already be affected by what's occurring in terms of slightly less capacity in the market and
also increased demand? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

So on the first one regarding the PYD, so for this quarter, indeed there was a bit more
development on the premium line. I will also comment on the claims line later. But what
happened a bit more than in other quarters that the premiums that are coming through
are not in line with our earlier assumptions. It's coming actually not from one specific part
of the business. It's across markets, across lines of business, mainly from proportional
contracts where we, in the end, rely on our cedents and therefore costs. And at this time,
these forecasts tended to be on the optimistic side. So that explains why a bit more than
normal, we had a more significant movement on the premium line.
There was also some slight negative development on the claims line, but very moderate.
There were some pluses and minuses. We had some negative on UK motor and there
was also some negative from US liability. We had a couple of cedents that were catching
up with their reporting on claims. But overall, it was quite a moderate quarter in terms of
PYD. And I would also point out that on the Corporate Solutions side. In Q1, the prior-year
development was actually slightly positive, which is good news that the decisive reserving
actions we took end of last year seemed to be holding up.
And the second one, Andrew, was around impacts on pricing already for the mid-year
renewables. I'm also a bit cautious on speculating on prices. But clearly if you look at the
industry overall already, we have started to see significant price momentum, as you know,
in the commercial markets and more and more now also on the reinsurance side in areas
where it was less affected. We had very successful renewals in Japan as John pointed out,
where we could achieve substantial premium increases.
Page 6 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

So I think with the impacts likely on the capital position on some primary companies with a
bit more avoidance of risk in general, clearly the demand is expected to go up while the
fee effect in the markets would impact supply on the other hand. So I would say it's quite
likely outlook that we see further price strengthening. We can also look just at the recent
development in the ILS markets, the alternate capital markets where also spreads were
widening a bit, so everything points in this direction, but it's too early to tell to what
extent. But clearly, supply/demand equilibrium is shifting.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Maybe just one clarification on the first part. As Edi mentioned on premiums, there is no
direct link to COVID-19 to this premium adjustment. I think most quarters we've got some
movements, it just so happened in this first quarter of 2020 that there was an unusually
mix of relatively large premium adjustments compared to the size of the claims
adjustment that netted through.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew. Thanks for your questions. Can we have the next question, please.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from Paris Hadjiantonis from Exane BNP
Paribas. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Yes, hi, everyone. I hope you are doing well. Two questions from my side. The first one will
be on nat cat. So basically if I look at your nat cat premiums; these are up about 6% this
year, obviously driven by pricing and your budget is also slightly up about less under 6%.
So I'm just wondering, are you actually increasing your nat exposures or are you passing
most of the additional catastrophe risk that you are underwriting over to ACP or external
retro? Then on COVID-19, I mean, we know that giving precise estimates at this point in
time is probably too difficult. But I was wondering if there are any developments or maybe
exposures that cause concerns especially from a risk management perspective? Thank
you.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Edi, back to you, again.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Paris, for the questions. On the first one, regarding our nat cat account, this
is correct. If we just measure the nat calculated premium in P&C Re, that's up about 6%
last year versus this year. That's in line with the strategy. We also explained last year at the
Investors Day that we look at nat cat as an attractive pool. However, we have good client
franchise and also the risk knowledge to underwrite this business in a good way. But also,
back then, we said that our goal is to use our franchise and our risk knowledge to do
underwrites. But also we want our nat cat portfolio rather to be more diversified.
Page 7 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

So when it comes to the concentration peaks like hurricane, we started to actually share
more of the business with alternative capital partners. And that, in the end, you already
gave a bit of the answer, explains why the budget is only going up by some 3% which
actually means that we see the bit more out to our alternative capital partners, but then
we increase on the gross side.
As you may have also observed, alternative capital market was a bit more stretched in
recent times. But actually Swiss Re could maintain the support from its third party capital
providers and we could even get some more supports which is to issue it, also few more
cat on, so that we actually go into the upcoming hurricane season with a good hedged
portfolio and the portfolio that in the end is more diversified.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second one was quite broad about the areas of concern around COVID. I mean,
I've already indicated in earlier calls the areas where there's likely going to be increased
claims on the rent cancellation. I think we covered that quite a bit. Obviously, credit and
surety is something to watch quite closely. Obviously, that's a line that's closely linked to
the economic development with the recessionary outlook and the likelihood of increased
defaults. But also -- and maybe there is a good example to just point out the
uncertainties, so you can expect recessionary impact and more defaults. On the other
hand, the government interventions are really also quite unprecedented. And if you think
about specifically for credit and surety, in many markets, there is government support for
the SME sector. There's discussions even in some markets that the government actually is
backing up the trade credit business because trade credit is important to keep the
economies going. So there's just a number of unprecedented factors at play that make it
very difficult to forecast what's really going to happen.
But our credit and surety book, to maybe explain better, we have 10% market share in
reinsurance. We are not a leader as bigger ones. And of course, I think I mentioned, it's
less than 3% and it's a very diversified book of business. And we already -- actually
because of the end of cycle situation, already reduced our exposure there. So credit and
surety is an area. And then I think there's obviously many other areas where there are
pluses, but obviously more minuses there. So I leave it at that for the time-being.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Thanks, Paris for your questions. Can we take the next question, please.

Operator
The next question comes from Thomas Fossard from HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Two questions for me. The first question will be, could you tell us if
you have taken additional measures since COVID-19 crisis started, if you have taken any
additional measures to protect your balance sheet? Actually, you indicated significant
derisking offshore investment portfolio. I think that that was clear that was explained by
Guido. Now I was thinking on every single part from investments. Have you taken
additional measures in order to protect your book, I don't know, with additional protection
Page 8 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

or something like that in order to meet the effects? The second question will be on
CorSo. The first question would be the 13% price increase, so the momentum is still
keeping up well. But in light of the recessionary environment and in light of supporting and
talking to your clients, how do you believe that certain percent is still achievable in the new
environment? And also, due to this new environment, are you taking a pause to the cost
reduction program at CorSo? Thank you.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks. Maybe John for the first question and Edi on CorSo.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure, I might come back on the last. So in terms of protecting the balance sheet, I think
that first and foremost these actions on the asset side have been a significant and, if I can
say so, obviously effective in reducing the negative impact that otherwise would have
come through. On this side, obviously you have whether P&L relevant and then those
items which are just relevant on the balance sheet. The one thing I would point out is that
the book value of the company has held up extraordinarily well through the first quarter. If
you compare book value per share on March 31 to where we were on December 31, the
reduction is less than 4%. And that I think is indicative of how we've been able to manage
the extraordinary actions that otherwise might have hit us for a potentially double-digit
decline.
I think on the liability side, the smartest way to protect our balance sheet is to do smart
underwriting. And once again, we're in a quarter where the COVID numbers are
distracting us from speaking about the underlying. But let's remember that we made
$300 million in our Life & Health Re business in the quarter. We really are on track for the
two estimated loss ratios, 97% in P&C Re and 105% in CorSo for the year. So I think the
best thing we can do is make sure that, in spite of 14,000 people working from home,
continue to deliver the kind of results that we had in the April 1 renewals to make sure that
that business is going very well, while simultaneously managing the crisis of the pandemic
and the associated fallout on economic activity from that. So that's where management is.
There is a series of weekly and even in some cases, bi-weekly meeting that have been
instituted to separate the active management of COVID-19 related issues from our dayto-day operations and those day-to-day operations proceed at pace with almost no
interruptions.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yeah, maybe if I could just add bit of color on the liability side. I mean, early on as the
COVID crisis unfolded, we took a number of actions in terms of adjusting our underwriting
appetite. In the end, this is a crisis still unfolding. So the picture you can have in mind is
that of a burning house and obviously as an insurer, you need to be very careful not to
provide coverage for things that are already foreseeable. So across many lines of
business in P&C and Life & Health, we have tightened our under-appetite to not put
undue risk on our balance sheet.

Page 9 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

So, for example, we have reduced capacity for large lives it would put out there because
there's really a risk of increased adverse selection or when it comes to a line like disability
income that is linked to some extent to economic development recession. We also
reduced the appetite and there's many examples in other areas. And so that's obviously
an important dimension to protect our balance sheet. But, as John said, it's equally
important for those lines, those exposures that are not materially impacted by COVID
that our business, our underwriting, and everything continues as normal as possible.
And then on your second question, was around the pricing dynamics in the commercial
business, I would clearly see this to continue. I mean, we have already started to see the
movement. It was still quite slow. We know a year ago, in the beginning, was only 5%, and
then over 2019 averaged CorSo could achieve 12%. And now in the first quarter, it's up to
13%. I think also relating to the comments earlier, just dynamics in the risk taking markets
overall, it's what's happening. I think the only direction I think that this momentum is going
to (technical difficulty)
And I think the last one was on the cost side. John, do you want to take that?

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So the restructuring at CorSo was laid out where removing about one-third of the
business that was on the books at mid-year 2019. You start to see that show up in the
premium earned in spite of the rate increases that we're getting. We've actually, I think,
for the first quarter shown a reduction in earned premium because of the portfolios which
have not renewed. In many cases, there were whole teams which were relieved with their
responsibilities because we're not in the business.
The good news is some of that -- a fair amount of that was done in 2019 before the crisis
and so many of those people were able to migrate to other careers that were more
convinced of future success in those lines. I think we'll continue to reshape CorSo into a
strong performing company. That means following through on already committed actions,
I don't think we necessarily need to do more than that at this time.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Thank you, Thomas, for your questions. Can we take the next question, please?

Operator
The next question comes from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi, everyone, thanks for taking my questions. Just two please. So, firstly, on business
interruption, please, could you comment on whether you are seeing reinsurance policy
wordings broadly following the primary policy wordings and (inaudible) what will you think
of the main risks on BI? So is there explicit or unintended exposures in policy wordings or
is it the risk of retrospective legal challenge to coverage -- those comments around on
your books specifically? And then, I guess just thinking about the balance sheet and scope
Page 10 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

to grow gross loss, I mean, do you think you have the balance sheet strength and the
appetite to go after the capital intensive lines that could see more rates, given the likely
reduction we're seeing in industry capital? Just being -- I suspect you'll say you've got the
balance sheet, but I'm more interested in the appetite. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks, Jonny. We will start with Edi.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, thanks, Jonny. The first one on business interruption, as mentioned in the
introductory comments, that it's clearly the most debated area and obviously the main
discussion first is happening on the primary side to what extent pandemic triggered
business interruption is covered or not. We still remain of the view that most property
policies, they actually require a physical damage figure for a BI to be claimable, particularly
the large limits on BI or these policies.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then obviously there's a range of what you call non-damage BI extensions in several
markets. And these you have to then put into different pockets so that shows where
clearly pandemic is. It's excluded on the one extreme, but on the other extreme, there
are a number of policies out there that clearly cover pandemic. And then there's a whole
range in between where there's, for example, additional triggers that need to be met, so
the policy would only pay if there is an outbreak of the infectious disease on the premise
and then you need the closure by public authorities.
So it's in this gray area where currently all our cedents are going through their portfolios
to identify what is really in their portfolio. So that that's really what's happening on the
original side and clearly there will be some areas where there will be legal disputes. I
mean, on the retrospective inclusion by legislation, I think commented in introduction,
that's just a deeply concerning idea. Insurance really relies on the rule of law. And if we
move down that track, clearly it would go beyond what the insurance industry is able to
bear, and there I believe that reason will prevail. So that's more the situation on the
original side.
And then on the reinsurance side, it really depends on the kind of contracts, proportional
or non-proportional. And then there's some contracts, for example, catastrophe contracts
where clearly it's name perils, there would be no exposure. But there's also contracts
where it really follows the original policy wording. And then a question is then about
aggregation of losses. But there we have also quite some elements in terms of event
definitions, hours, clauses. So there's a lot of things that need to be sorted out. But that's
just to give you a bit of color why that it takes a bit of time to have a clear assessment of
the whole landscape around business interruption.
Maybe the second one, John, your take about our ability to asset-light...

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Page 11 of 17



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

Sure. And just so I understand it is frustrating not to have clear estimates of what this
looks like. But just remind people that there's enormous uncertainty on the underlying
health issues and nature of the pandemic. In our worldwide offices, we see some place as
well organized as Singapore is now looking at its third wave. And so to think that we're out
of this first storm of the pandemic, I think is absolutely premature than the subsequent
economic cost to it and what is in fact clearly the responsibilities of insurance, primary
insurance, and ultimately reinsurance remains highly speculative. And so I just caution
everybody from trying to get ahead of the facts on this one.
With respect, Jonny, to your second question, yeah, I think you asked about capital
intensive covers. We do think we have got the balance sheet to be able to manage this.
But I think the hurdles, as you imply, are probably higher. We are paying a lot of attention
to where long-term interest rates are compared to some of our European competitors.
We probably have more interest in US dollar rates and are paying a lot of attention to how
far down long-term rates have moved. That's affected our pricing. And when we talk
about the required price increases in the April 1 renewals, some of that came from more
conservative modeling of the nat cat risk, but some of that, as the January 1 renewals
came from a different view of long-term rates. And so anything that we do in terms of
increasing business going forward is going to require to be value creative in this new rate
environment and to the degree that it involves longer tail business, those hurdles just
become more and more impactful in what the required pricing would be.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right, Jonny, thanks for your questions. Can we take the next question, please?

Operator
Yes, the next question comes from Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. I hope you can hear me. So one topic left, which I don't know if it
was addressed in the first few minutes. I missed it, sorry. This is about the US workers'
compensation. Seeing some very wide ranging numbers from various bodies like the
NCCI or even in California. I mean could you help us understand where you are sitting on
that, what are the risks for you, if any or if material? And any color would be very helpful.
Thank you very much.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks, Vinit, for the question on workers' comp. We only touched it briefly as one
line of business that is likely impacted definitely on the premium line. So US workers'
comp -- I mean, what you would expect that, obviously with the lock-downs that the
premium is going down, but you could also see that many people working from home,
some of the more exposed jobs not being conducted for the time being, it could also be,
let's say, a reduction in frequency. But on the other hand, there will likely be claims on
certain types of jobs in terms of the healthcare workers, other care workers. Just what we
can say, our workers' comp books does not have a significant parts of these more
exposed types of jobs.
Page 12 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

Also our workers' comp business is mainly proportional contracts in the US. And those
would have our occurrence cap, so that the maximum exposure from this development
should actually be quite, quite limited. So for our specific situation, we do not expect a
material impact from the workers' comp business. But on a more broader basis, again just
reiterating what John was saying, it's still early in the crisis in how this is going to unfold,
still has more open questions than things we can really answer.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks, Vinit, for your question. Can we take the next question, please?

Operator
Your next question comes from Vikram Gandhi from Societe Generale. Please go ahead.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good afternoon everybody. It's Vik from SocGen. Apologies if you have already
answered this question, since I dropped out of the line. Firstly, can you give us some color
on the underlying exposures in the US casualty, i.e. D&O, E&O, MedMal, general advocacy,
et cetera ad what kind of really flows through the umbrella in excess books, which are the
lines that are particularly susceptible to adverse developments in the prevailing
circumstances? That's question one. Secondly, given the virtually weak results at CorSo
and the 141% SST, how should we think about the prospects of a potential capital injection
in the unit?

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Thanks, Vik. On the first one regarding casualty, lives business in the US workers' comp is
just covered. That's just the D&O space you hinted. There is -- if you look into past,
recessions are linked to financial market turbulence, so there could be a pickup in losses
on the D&O side. Again in industry accounts, that's not a material segment we support.
And then there's a more broader liability space that will obviously you could picture more
lawsuits against employers and other areas. I mean, if we just add a bit to this picture, we
are pointing -- we've been pointing out for a long time that the US liability space is in a
quite aggressive environment with social inflation. All the reasons why we think while we
have taken a very cautious stance on US liability business.
On the CorSo side, as we mentioned in earlier calls, we have taken a very decisive
pruning, exceeding the most exposed lines in US liability. And also on reinsurance, we
continue to be quite defensive on the US liability lines, particularly those exposed to
severity, so in the 1-1 renewals, but again, in 1-4, we have actually reduced our exposures
to US liability. We measure now within the client portfolios the limits underlying exposed to
severity. And for the larger corporate segment, we actually have, on a year-on-year basis,
taken out some 20% off of exposure. So, clearly there is a room for further litigation also
out of this COVID. But again, as for other lines, a lot at this point would be speculation. I
have to come up more firm view of how this is going to unfold.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}
Page 13 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

And your question on CorSo's capital, yeah, I mean, obviously it'd be better if CorSo was
making money than losing money. I'd reiterate that the prior year development was a
modest positive for the CorSo for the quarter. So we believe that we'll have to weather
the COVID-19 claims in Q1 and for the quarters, we'll evaluate the capital levels at the
business unit accordingly and make some decisions. But I'd say here at the end of the first
quarter, we don't see the need to do anything in particular.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Thanks, Vik, for your questions. Can we take the next question, please?

Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question is a follow up question from Thomas Fossard
from HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I just wanted to come back on the April 1 renewals, the plus 4% premium growth. Could
you shed a bit of some light on split maybe on geographical basis, Asia versus US maybe?
And also if you could split it differently by lines of business, property versus specialty
versus liability just to bear the stand? I mean, how you shifted your book in -- at April 1?
And the second question would be really going to social claims inflation, US social claims
infection because it's been a big topic in Q3 and Q4 last year for the market. Suddenly it's
completely disappearing from any price reducings or con-call transcripts. So -- and I guess
that's underlying claims trend has fully not stopped from one day to the other. So just if
you could tell us a bit how things -- what you saw in terms of trends in terms of claims so
far this year in terms of maybe second derivative acceleration or deceleration? Thank you

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Back to you, Edi.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Back to me. The first one is a bit more color on our renewal account. So 4% growth across
the board, obviously that has an element of the price increases. That is the most
significant contributor at this time. We could achieve nominal price increases year-to-date
on what we renewed of 6%, which is significant across our book. As we also said, actually
on a risk-adjusted basis, this would be about flat. But still this is actually positive because it
means that we could not only compensate for the more conservative loss specs. In, for
example, US casualty, which is related to your second question, where we still see that
this is a high possibility environment. So we needed to cost this more conservatively, so
that loss assumption increases plus the significant adjustments we made to our typhoon
flood modeling in Japan. So these factors we could fully compensate by the normal
increases we achieved.

Page 14 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

In terms of the growth, it's also a bit linked to the fact that I just mentioned. So clearly in
Japan, we could grow the total premium by about 20% in the nat cat space with the price
increases. But also we deployed more capacity, given the beneficial outcomes we could
achieve. But then linked to our increased capacity on the nat cat side, we could also
access some additional business from clients in other lines of business.
But a bit more broadly, I would still say that our trajectory as already explained in 1-1 is to
shift the portfolio up a bit more to shorter duration. So we keep growing more on the
property nat cat side and have a more cautious stance on the longer tail lines exposed to
things like social inflation. Then obviously there's also the important point John made, that
in a much lower interest rate environment, obviously these longer tailed liability lines need
to get even better in terms of underwriting profit to make sense, given that you cannot
discount as much anymore. So that's a bit of color around where the growth is coming
from.
And on the social inflation topic really, that's not going away in the US. As we have
commented earlier, we really think for the US liability market to become sustainable that
there needs to be more than just premium increases and limited auctions. That's clearly
what's happening in the underlying business now. But what was this aggressive thought
environment with this nuclear verdict, a lot of them are actually around commercial motor.
If there is car accidents and bodily injury, then the lawyers will go aggressively after some
corporates and the jurors will then abort this huge non-economic damages. And for that
to become better, you will need to see some court reform at the state or at the federal
level to become again more reasonable. And now you would add the developments
around COVID in the US, so it is clearly an area where we would continue to underwrite
with utmost caution.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

And maybe just one observation on the penultimate point of Edi. To the degree that
motor frequency has materially reduced in all markets with lock-downs, you'll probably
see some modest benefit also on some of this commercial motor caseload and
associated large jury awards related to it, but there's clearly a very temporal issue.
There's no reason to think there has been any structural change or improvement in that
business.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Well, thanks, Thomas, for your questions. Can we take the next question, please?

Operator
The next question is a follow-up question from Paris Hadjiantonis from Exane BNP. Please
go ahead.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Paris, are you there?

Page 15 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

FINAL

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Sorry, I was on mute, indeed. So a couple of very small follow-ups from my side. I guess
the first one will be on Life Re. I understand there was a small (inaudible) benefit for the
quarter. I don't know whether you can give us some color and quantify that that. I think it
was something to do with the capture. And the other one is on the investment side.
Obviously, quarter-to-date, we have seen a pronounced bounce back on the equity front.
How should we be thinking about the benefit to Swiss Re from an accounting perspective
given that you have put quite a lot of hedgers in place?

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Why don't we go to the second question first, so Guido can help us out?

A - Guido Furer

Bloomberg Transcript

Very happy to do so. Thanks, Paris, for the question. You will refer to the equity protection
which we've put in place. And as John has mentioned, we will dynamically manage to deal
with it, not only for equity but also on credit. Now on equity, we have only option in place.
That means the capital full upside open. And as you know on the US GAAP, both flows
through the P&L, the mark-to-market of the equity as well as of the hedges now. The fact
that we have only downside protection, doesn't take away the full upside potential. That's
why recovery which we have seen quarter-to-date should be very helpful.
I think, on the credit side, we have also a mixed set of different measures. Some are
option related, some are index related. And that's why also there we kept some of the
optionality open. Very important for us is the quality of the books. And as opposed on the
equity as well as on the credit and as John has mentioned, we actively do portfolio
management. That's why we not only work with overlays, we take out some of the beta
risk, but clearly all the massively improved quality of the portfolio over the last few
quarters and to give you just one figure to give you a bit of a feeling. I think there's a
good questioning about the fall of angel potential in our industry. And, yes, we know
under certain regulation, you don't get the capital benefit if it's outside of investment
grades and talking about matching adjustments.
Swiss Re does not make use of that, plus, although we just saw what happened in the
midst of the crisis related to Q1, the benchmark portfolios, they had a fallen angel in Q1 of
1%, basically credits being non-investment grade from former investment grades. Swiss
Re experienced through the same quarter just a 0.2%. That means one-fifth of the
market. And also thanks to the hedge, I have to say, in many of the exposed -- the COVID
exposed tax like leisure kind of consumer cyclicals, but also aviation, we are even net
short. And that's why it's a very dynamic program. And I think we look at both. We looked
at the beta risk which we clearly address with the overlay program.
But in the long term and I also believe as John has alluded to, this crisis is not over in the
short term. The economic damage is huge and some sectors will clearly be hammered
not only over few weeks, but over a few quarters, if not years. And we recognized that
very early, that's why we massively adjusted the portfolio position, started already last
year. And to give you just one figure, in Q4 last year and in Q1 this year, we had $7 billion

Page 16 of 17



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-04-30

of changes in the cover-bond portfolio, that's basically 25%. And of course, we went into
the less exposed area and this gives you some idea how we protect the balance sheet.
And again that we -- even if that crisis continues to do, we expect that we will serve
relatively decent in this environment. But it's full of challenge. Thank you.

FINAL

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. The first question you had, Paris, I think was related to the Life & Health
Re. As we said, we had a strong technical result as well as a good investment return.
Specifically, I think there was one -- not huge, but of a size that's probably worth noting.
We captured for some individual mortality business in Japan again just serving our clients
well and working with them on the way that they like us to help manage their own risk. So
nothing special there, ordinary business and we do these kind of transactions on a routine
basis.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Paris, thank you for your follow-up question. So we have actually come to the end of
our Q&A. If you have any further questions, please contact members of the IR team.
Thank you again for joining today. We wish you all to remain safe and healthy. Operator,
back to you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 17 of 17

