Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Capital Markets Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy Briggs , Group Chief Executive Officer
Andy Curran, CEO, Savings and Retirement UK & Europe and Group Director Scotland,
Phoenix Group
Andy Moss , Chief Executive Officer, Phoenix Life & Group Director, Heritage Business
Claire Hawkins , Director of Corporate Affairs and Investor Relations Director
Mike Eakins , Chief Investment Officer
Nicholas Lyons , Chairman
Rakesh Thakrar, Group Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Greg Patterson, Analyst
Larissa van Deventer, Analyst
Louise Miles , Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood, Analyst
Trevor Moss , Analyst

Presentation
Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Good afternoon, and welcome to Phoenix's 2020 Capital Markets Day. 2020 has been a
year of change for Phoenix as we welcomed Andy Briggs as our new CEO and completed
the acquisition of ReAssure, making Phoenix the UK's largest long-term savings and
retirement business.
Under Andy's leadership, Phoenix is evolving from being a financial consolidator to a
purpose-led business with a clear role in society. The Board recognizes that Phoenix has a
pivotal role to play as the country navigates the shifting pensions and savings landscape
and is committed to putting sustainability at the heart of all that it does. You will hear much
more about this shortly. Andy has rebuild and enlarged the executive team that will help
him deliver this new vision for the Group. His team brings together the strengths of our
legacy businesses with internal promotions being augmented by new colleagues from
ReAssure and external appointments, bringing market leading experience to meet the
skill sets required to deliver our strategy. Phoenix's transition is one of evolution and not
revolution. We are building on our market leading capabilities in managing Heritage

Page 1 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

businesses and undertaking M&A and integration both to consolidate that and to grow a
thriving Open business that supports customer retention and customer acquisition.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

As ever Phoenix continues to be focused on cash, resilience and grow. This morning's
trading update is evidence of our ongoing delivery with 2020 cash generation complete
and above the upper end of our target range. A strong and resilient capital position and
on target growth delivered by our Open business.
I'm also delighted that we have today announced our commitment to achieving net zero
carbon emissions by 2025 across our operations. And by 2050 across our investment
portfolio. In addition to the change we had planned for 2020, we have also of course
been dealing with the challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Throughout this
period, our priorities (technical difficulty) customers, colleagues and to support the
communities in which we operate. The Board is extremely grateful for the enormous
commitment shown by our colleagues during this difficult time. We continue to monitor
the physical and mental health of our colleagues as they juggle working from home with
their other personal commitments. Due to the current restrictions, our Capital Markets
Day takes a different format from previous years. Andy and his team will be presenting
today from our Whithel [ph] office, where our premises is sufficiently large to enable our
presenters to comply with social distancing rules. Andy and Rakesh will lead off today and
provide an overview of our strategy and of the financial framework that underpins its
delivery.
We will then move into a series of deep dives into the core building blocks of our
business, which will begin with a more detailed look at our approach to sustainability. We
will then conclude with Q&A.
Thank you for joining us today and for the work that you do covering Phoenix and the
sector. Stay safe and I hope that you manage to spend some time with your families this
Christmas. I look forward to speaking to you again at our full year results announcement in
March.

Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thank you, Nick, and good afternoon. Phoenix is the UK's largest long-term savings and
retirement business. We are a unique business with a clear strategy. We do three things.
Heritage is the bedrock of our business and we're the market leader. Distinctive
capabilities built from two decades of consolidation and further strengthened in July with
the acquisition of ReAssure.
Our open business has strong foundations and delivers growth, enjoy's unique
advantages from operating alongside Heritage. And we're the market leaders in M&A and
integration, where our specialist skills and scalable operating model underpin a
differentiated capability. This clear strategy delivers the three parts of our financial
framework. The first is cash, which is dependable, long-term and supports our dividend.
Second is resilience from our unique approach to risk management. This is fundamentally

Page 2 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

different to other insurers. And, third, growth, with our clear capital allocation framework
to ensure what only allocating capital where we will get strong returns.

FINAL

So, today, we'll spend time looking at each area of our UK strategy in more detail and we
will explain why Phoenix is well placed to take advantage of the drivers of change across
the long-term savings and retirement market and how we will win in each market.
So I want to start as all good businesses do with our customers and the key macro trends
driving profound change. We will grow now with people moving predictably from learning
to earning to retirement. These days societal change means the world is no longer linear.
Now, we all know we live in an aging society with more people than ever benefiting from a
longer healthier life. But increased longevity brings its own complexities and the need to
take the right decisions throughout our lifetimes to ensure our futures are fulfilling. At the
same time, the world of pensions has radically shifted.

Bloomberg Transcript

Defined Benefit Schemes that guarantee a fixed income in retirement are vanishingly rare
and we've seen strong growth in auto enrolment, tripling the contributions into workplace
schemes. People rather than governments are now expected to take the lead in planning
for that future.
Financial uncertainty is forcing people not simply to live for today, but to look further
ahead. But I find it complex and most just aren't doing enough. And then digital is
becoming the normal method of interaction and interest in sustainability is increasingly
shaping decisions. People want their money put to good use. As a result, what we're
saying is that customer needs are changing as they move through the stages of the life
saving cycle.
In early life, they're typically in the accumulation phase with they are most likely to be
saving through workplace pensions and looking to protect their family income. In midlife,
customers will start to consolidate their pension pots and begin to prepare for retirement.
Moving into later life, customer wealth will be decumulating as they draw income for their
retirement and provide for social care. And the customer need for guidance also changes
across the life saving cycle. This need for guidance is also stronger than ever as people
struggle with the complexity of having multiple pension pots and navigating through the
choices offered by pension freedoms.
So here at Phoenix, we have a clear role to play in society to address these needs and to
help people journey to and through retirement, that's why our new purpose is helping
people secure a life of possibilities. This means providing our customers with the right
guidance and products at the right time to support the right choices. Our new purpose
sits at the heart of Phoenix and acts as our Northstar. It starts with being customerobsessed and being focused on the outcomes that matter to our customers. It drives our
strategy, ensuring we allocate resources to the most attractive opportunities where we
have competitive advantage and so we will further enhance our returns for investors and
our people are absolutely fundamental. We all know winning businesses have the best
people with superior skills and capabilities who are diverse and highly engaged. As Nick
has already covered, this is a real strength throughout Phoenix.

Page 3 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

Our focus on purpose and our culture has led to a 20 basis point rise in colleague pride
and advocacy this year. And what this means is that in the pandemic, our people have
been determined to be there for our customer in spite of the move to work from home.
As a result, our call answer rates and customer satisfaction scores have remained above
90%. This is a great example of this virtuous circle. I (technical difficulty) this is with the
best people focused on their purpose and their role in society deliver better customer
outcomes and in turn stronger returns for shareholders.
And we see sustainability being at the core of our new purpose and a key enabler of our
strategy. Our sustainability strategy focuses on delivering for our 14 million customers and
investing our 323 billion of assets in a sustainable manner, making a meaningful difference
to society. We fully embed this into our business activities.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are committed to reducing our environmental impact, investing in our people and
culture, supporting our communities and working ethically with our suppliers. Claire will talk
in more detail about our sustainability strategy later, but I am delighted today Phoenix has
announced its commitment for our operations to be net zero carbon by 2025 and for our
investment portfolio to achieve net zero carbon by 2050.
So what I want to do now is talk about the sector, our position within it, and then go on to
set out our strategy. So first, the sector. This exhibits takes the customer life saving cycle
which I covered earlier and overlays the various markets for long-term savings and
retirement products. It illustrates the large size of the life insurance asset pool as a whole
at GBP1.8 trillion with good growth at 7% per annum. And covers the size of each market
within that. Here we overlay Phoenix's position within these markets. With GBP300 billion
of UK assets under administration. We have a 17% share of the total market. This includes
Heritage, where we're the market leader. Our scale is valuable as it drives our strong
dependable cash generation. It also shows the strong foundations and hence significant
potential for growth we have across our Open businesses.
We're a top 3 player in workplace with an 11% market share. Our customer savings and
investment business covers both individual savings and pensions drawdown, where we
have a 16% market share. And our retirement solutions business covers annuities, where I
see our lower market share relative to peers as a positive, as it means our balance sheet
has much lower exposure to credit risk. Now the final build of this slide is to look at the
major market trends and hence the significant growth opportunities.
We continue to see insurance consolidating their legacy books of business to release
capital and avoid the inefficiencies caused by running these old style products on legacy
systems. This represents a GBP440 billion M&A opportunity to our Heritage business in
the UK market alone. We're also seeing strong growth in the workplace market with
annual flows of GBP40 billion per annum, driven by auto enrolment and growing rapidly
with the aging population and the move from Defined Benefit. There are also annual
flows of GBP30 billion as individuals prepare for retirement and move into decumulation
products. And, finally, corporates are derisking, offloading Defined Benefit Schemes to
insurance companies. Flows here are in excess of GBP40 billion per annum.

Page 4 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

And this understanding of the stocks and flows in the long-term savings and retirement
market underpins Phoenix's strategy and ensures we're well positioned to take full
advantage of these industry trends.
So on to strategy, Phoenix has a clear strategy focused on three key priorities, leveraging
our leading share of in-force and the major market trends that I covered on the last
couple of slides. Our first priority is optimizing what we already have at in-force business
across both Heritage and Open customers. Our risk management framework ensures we
improve customer outcomes and deliver resilient cash generation. Integral to this is the
delivery of both management actions and integration activities, including cost and capital
efficiencies. So delivering the Standard Life transition and ReAssure integration are top
priorities.
Then our second priority is deepening customer relationships. So engaging them and
offering the right products and services to meet their needs across the life saving cycle.
This means they will stay with us and consolidate towards us as they journey to improve
retirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

And our third priority is customer acquisition. Here, we will leverage the other industry
drivers of change and grow our in-force business by acquiring workplace BPA customers
through new business and Heritage customers through M&A. This strategy delivers cash
resilience and growth. So we have a clear strategy that is aligned to the industry drivers of
change. But to win, we also need distinctive competitive advantages across Heritage,
Open and M&A. So let me cover each of these in turn.
Phoenix is the market leader in managing Heritage businesses and it remains the bedrock
of our business. Here, our strategy is to deliver customer outcomes and manage the inforce business for cash and resilience. Andy Moss will take you through the deep dive
later and explain how our scalable operating model and our ongoing delivery of
management actions delivers value.
Our track record of improving customer outcomes and maintaining excellent customer
satisfaction are unquestionable, as is the value we created with -- for investors with
GBP2.5 billion of cash generation from management actions in the last 10 years. Our
competitive advantages in this area are truly market-leading, by far the best that I've seen
in my 33 years in the sector.
Phoenix's Open businesses have strong foundations and are central to our purpose of
helping people secure a life of possibilities. Here, we are focused on deepening
customer relationships and customer acquisition and we have unique competitive
advantages from operating alongside our Heritage business. And the current deep dive
will focus on the three of our five Open businesses where we see the biggest growth
potential. So in workplace, our advantages are our scale and our market-leading cost
efficiency from leveraging the substantial Heritage relationship with charter consulting
services and our priorities are accelerating our investment in our proposition to benefit
from the shift to master trust.

Page 5 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

In customer savings and investment our advantage is our 14 million customers. We want to
help them journey to and through retirement. And in BPA, our priority is improving capital
efficiency where we should be ahead of peers due to our diversification with Heritage in
order to grow our market share. Hence, I'm confident we can deliver attractive profitable
growth here.
Phoenix has an excellent track record of M&A and integration. Our recent transaction
history speaks for itself and has seen us grow to a company which is currently ranked 67th
in the FTSE. Cash generation from acquisition is a multiple of the price paid and as
Phoenix has grown and built scale, these multiples have increased. Our integration
capabilities are market-leading and have been further strengthened through the
ReAssure business, which provides us with additional talent and creates the bandwidth to
run multiple integrations in parallel.
And, again, we have distinctive capabilities and a set up to win. We provide deal certainty
to vendors with strong access to capital markets, proven Part VII capabilities and strong
regulatory relationships. We also have a scalable operating model with modern cost
efficient technology and our broad range of existing business, enables us to exit greater
capital synergies. And finally, we have specialist skills, which enables us to deliver
management actions and complex migrations. We continue to see M&A as a core driver
of our growth and we are ready to do the next deal. We estimate the Heritage market
opportunity to be GBP440 billion in the UK with a further GBP190 billion in Germany and
Ireland where our European businesses are based. The UK continues to be our primary
focus for M&A as the market we understand the best have a proven track record in and
has the greatest near-term opportunities. And whilst our focus is on acquiring Heritage
books, we will consider buying open books, where they have a good strategic fit and
bring complementary capabilities to our strategy. With GBP323 billion of assets, I think it's
essential that Phoenix creates a single asset management team and I'm delighted to
have Mike Eakins in the role of Chief Investment Officer to build this. You will hear more
from Mike later about our ambition to be a best-in-class asset manager focused on
customer centricity, leveraging best in class strategic partnerships with an integrated
approach to responsible investment. Our asset management team is an enabler to our
strategy, focusing on managing asset risk for resilience through the hedging of equity and
interest rate risk and the proactive management of our credit portfolio.
Mike's team are also integral to our ambitions to grow our Open business through the
origination of our liquid assets to support BPA. Moving now to our financial framework,
which Rupesh will cover in more detail shortly. Cash is king at Phoenix and I've even [ph]
inherited an enviable 10-year track record of meeting or exceeding all cash generation
targets and it's very much my plan to continue this. We've delivered cash generation this
year of GBP1.7 billion ahead of our targets.
And we are on track for just under GBP6 billion of cash generation over the next 4 years.
And GBP19 billion over the life of our business. This cash generation significantly exceeds
our uses and excess cash will be reinvested into value accretive growth. Long term
dependable cash generation that brings certainty to our dividend. Resilience is a critical
differentiator of Phoenix. Our unique approach to risk management is the key driver here,
where we use an extensive hedging program to manage unrewarded risks like interest
Page 6 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

rates and equity. An active defensive portfolio management to manage rewarded risks
such as credit. This means our financial performance is significantly less volatile than other
insurance businesses as evidenced in this exhibit, which plots our sensitivity to market
risks. The chart speaks for itself and bring certainty to our stable and sustainable dividend.
And finally, we want to deliver growth in cash to make cash sustainable and ideally
growing into the longer term.
This simple diagram that we finally call the wedge illustrates this. The wedge highlights
that cash generation is typically two thirds organic cash generation and one third
management actions. Over time, we expect the composition of organic cash generation
between Heritage and Open to change, but we expect our long track record of delivering
management actions to continue with or without M&A. Rupesh will talk in more detail
about how much new business we need each year to offset the run-off of our Heritage
business.
Once we exceed this offset, an organic cash generation is growing, we can consider
growing our dividend without M&A. But M&A remains a core part of our strategy. And if we
can deliver this on top of everything else, it starts to get really exciting. Dependable cash
generation and a resilient capital position drive our dividend. Our dividend policy is stable
and sustainable. The M&A has enabled us to make 4 dividend increases in the last 4 years
and our dividend has grown at a CAGR of about 4% over the last 10 years, proving the
wedge and further M&A provide further opportunities to dividend growth. Our dividend
growth is broadly in line with the FTSE 100 pre-COVID. Something many would not have
expected from Phoenix. But the resilience of our business is clearly demonstrated in the
post COVID period. Our dividend has continued to be rock solid. This is a dramatic
outperformance of the FTSE 100 and as a result, we expect to be the 24th largest
dividend payer in the FTSE this year.
So let me summarize. Phoenix is a sustainable and growing business. Helping people
secure a life of possibilities. Our strategy delivers unique advantages. Our approach to
risk management differentiates us from our peers delivering resilience to our in-force
business. We deliver high levels of long-term dependable cash generation, which
supports our stable and sustainable dividend for many years and our business generates
excess cash to invest in a range of growth options aligned to the industry drivers of
change.
And at Phoenix, the whole is much greater than the sum of the parts. Our history of cost
discipline drives market-leading cost efficiency across both our Heritage and Open
businesses, a unique advantage over peers for our workplace business. Our broad
diversified range of products give us capital efficiencies that benefit both our Heritage
and Open businesses, a unique advantage over our peers for our BPA business.
And, finally, as the UK's largest long-term savings and retirement provider, we have 14
million customers and are therefore best placed to help them journey to improve
retirements, a unique advantage for our customer savings and investment business. And
it's for all these reasons that I am very confident about our future here at Phoenix.

Page 7 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

And, now, I'll hand you over to Rakesh, who will expand on our financial framework.
Rakesh?

FINAL

Rakesh Thakrar

{BIO 20549114 <GO>}

Thank you, Andy. This morning, we provided a trading update on our Q3 performance,
demonstrating further progress in our three key attributes; cash, resilience and growth.
These evidence Phoenix's ability to continue to deliver across all key metrics, despite the
enormous challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Year-to-date, the operating companies of Phoenix and ReAssure have delivered just over
GBP1.7 billion of cash generation on a pro forma basis. 2020 cash generation for the
group is now complete and has exceeded the revised target we set back in August of
(technical difficulty) to GBP1.6 billion. Our capital position has strengthened materially,
increasing from a combined group pro forma surplus of GBP4.4 billion at 30th June to
GBP5 billion at 30th September. This equates to a shareholder capital coverage ratio of
159% right in the middle of our target range of (technical difficulty) strong. We have set
(technical difficulty) 2019 new business long-term cash generation of GBP483 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

At our half year results, I signalled that we expected our solvency position to strengthen
from the pro forma 30th June balance sheets results presented. The end September
position reported today reflects the benefits of the completed Part VII transfer of the LNG
mature savings business to ReAssure and the delivery of additional equity hedging and
integration synergies.
We have also completed the annual review of longevity assumptions. Whilst it remains too
early to make any changes to our long-term assumptions around longevity rates from the
pandemic, we have updated our assumptions to the CMI 2019 longevity tables. As a
result, we have seen a GBP0.2 billion release of longevity reserves. We remain on track to
deliver a number of further management actions in Q4 and expect our full year solvency
position to be broadly consistent with the Q3 position having made provision for the 2020
final dividend.
Finally, I want to draw your attention to the economic variances we experienced in the
nine months to end September. The waterfall presented on this slide is on a combined
group basis and shows that our economic variances were a strain of only GBP0.2 billion,
which was partially offset by the higher management actions from the credit trades,
demonstrating the resilience that our approach to managing market risks delivers. Phoenix
has a clear financial framework in place to supporters in delivering the strategy that Andy
has just outlined.
This slide summarizes this framework and we will spend time today exploring each
component part in more detail. Our in-force business is cash generative. And, as you
know, cash is king at Phoenix. The risk management framework is designed to deliver
resilience and we manage our business within clear target ranges for capital, leverage
and liquidity.

Page 8 of 43



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Resilience brings dependability to the timing of cash generation and certainty to our ability
to pay a stable and sustainable dividend to shareholders. Our in-force business is
generating surplus cash and capital and we have a robust framework for allocating surplus
capital to our range of growth options. Growth delivers incremental cash generation and
replenishes our in-force business. This is the wedge hypothesis and if growth can more
than offset the in-force run-off, we will be able to consider increasing our current dividend.
As I said, cash is king at Phoenix and our in-force business delivers long term predictable
cash generation. We set annual cash generation targets, which we frame in the context of
a 4 or 5-year target. Since listing in 2010, we have met or exceeded every financial target
we have set. These targets are for our in-force business only and therefore exclude any
new BPA, other new business and future M&A and only include management actions up to
2023. It therefore acts as a base case for cash generation. We are in the process of
finalizing our first full annual operating planning process as an enlarged group and will
therefore provide an update on targets with our 2020 full year results in March.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over the life of our in-force business, we have estimated that our Group will deliver
GBP19 billion of cash generation, GBP14.4 billion of this cash generation comes from the
natural runoff of the in-force business. In 2020, this organic cash generation was GBP800
million and we would typically see this reduce at around 6% per annum.
It is worth noting that this level of organic cash generation includes a drag from the
transitionals associated with Solvency II. When these run out in 2032, we will see a circa
GBP250 million kicker to annual organic cash generation, which will reduce by 6%
thereafter. We expect management actions including integration synergies to deliver
GBP2 billion of cash generation with GBP2.5 billion of cash generation delivered for
management actions over the last 10 years, they form a dependable source of cash
generation even without any M&A and typically comprise around one third of annual cash
generation. We also carry a level of Solvency II free surplus in our operating companies,
which will be released over time and enhances the dependability of cash generation. This
slide will be familiar to you. It sets out the Holdco uses of cash generation over the 4
years to 2023 and illustrates how secure our dividend is over that period. It also highlights
the significant amount of surplus cash that will be generated over this period that will be
available, either for growth or for special returns to shareholders. Subject to operating
well within the leverage range of 25% to 30%.
Looking further ahead, our in-force cash generation supports a stable and sustainable
dividend over the long term. But it is important to remember that this exhibit assumes no
new business, no further M&A and no management actions beyond 2023. We therefore
plan to do much better.
To improve the clarity of our reporting, we are introducing an additional new metric called
long-term free cash. This will quantify the amount of cash within the group that will
become available for growth and shareholder returns. As a group-wide metric, it
therefore has the advantage of netting out the impact of moving cash from the operating
company to the holding company. It's also exclude shareholder debt and therefore
provides a quantification of the total cash available to meet group costs and shareholder
returns. We will report on this new metric at each reporting period.

Page 9 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

Moving on now to resilience. Phoenix has a disciplined approach to balance sheet
management, which is articulated through our risk management framework. This
framework is unchanged from my presentation at our Capital Markets Day last year. We
continue to manage capital within a target solvency ratio range of 140% to 180% to
manage Fitch leverage within a target range of 25% to 30% and to manage liquidity by
ensuring that we maintain an appropriate buffer.
Turning first to capital. We manage our risk in accordance with our risk appetite, which is
approved by our Board. We have a particularly low appetite to equity, currency and
interest rate risk, which we see as unrewarded. We therefore have a comprehensive and
dynamic hedging program in place, which hedges 80% to 90% of the shareholders
exposure to equity risk and uses swaps and swaptions to protect the group's Solvency II
surplus to changes in interest rates. We see credit risk is rewarded and actively manage
our portfolio to ensure that it remains high quality and diversified and operates within our
risk appetite. We also manage our longevity risk through reinsurance. Mike will talk in more
detail later about our approach to managing market risks.

Bloomberg Transcript

This differentiated approach to risk management means that we are more resilient to
market risk than our peers. This is evident in this exhibit, which shows the impact of
movements in equity rates, credit spreads and interest rates on the Solvency ratio of
Phoenix and a number of our main UK and European life peers. It is this resilience that has
driven the very low GBP0.2 billion economic variance during the year that I explained
earlier and which sets us apart from other insurance companies.
Our target solvency range is 140% to 180% and we are happy to operate at any point
within this range. Our priority is always to ensure our policy holders are extremely well
protected and we do not want to hold excess capital in the business for long periods of
time. This becomes particularly relevant when we think about funding M&A, where it is
important that we do not overcapitalize transactions.
An integral part of our M&A due diligence processes is building a view of how group
solvency will develop over time. Typically, we therefore see our solvency ratio reduce that
completion as we aim to utilize own funds to minimize the amount and mix of capital
being raised and increase as organic surplus and synergies begin to emerge from the
acquired business.
This slide shows how we use the full 140% to 180% target range to efficiently fund recent
acquisitions. As noted earlier, we have seen this play out for the ReAssure transaction with
the group ratio increasing by 9 basis points since the low of 150% immediately upon
completion at 30th June to 159% at the end of Q3, the midpoint of our range.
We adopt a similar approach with leverage where we seek to utilize the full pitch leverage
target range of 25% to 30% when considering the funding mix for each acquisition. The
ReAssure acquisition has seen group leverage increased to 28%, similar to the levels
following the AXA and Abbey acquisitions back in 2016.

Page 10 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

We expect leverage to reduce over time, as synergies emerge and as we utilize surplus
cash and capital to repay debt to operate well within our range. We have a rigorous
capital allocation framework, which we used to allocate surplus capital first to growth and
in the absence of growth as a return of capital. It is worth noting that other than BPA, our
Open business is capital-light and is therefore not subject to an allocation of capital. We
also fund internal vestings from in-force organic cash generation, therefore our capital
allocation framework applies to the allocation of surplus capital to BPA and M&A.
We are looking for deals that are value accretive, support the dividend and maintain our
investment grade rating.
As Andy explained earlier, we are also looking for M&A that provides a good strategic fit
to the group and supports our aspirations for growth across both our Heritage and Open
businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our BPA business is growing and is in the capable hands of Andy Curran, who will talk
more about this business later. My success criteria for the BPA business are crystal clear
and our approach to this business continues to be selective and proportionate. Currently,
we are achieving a capital strain on BPA business of 8%, which we measure inclusive of an
allowance for capital management policy. Andy is focused on reducing this to 5%. At these
levels of strain, we will allocate between GBP150 million to GBP200 million of surplus
capital to BPA per annum and expect GBP150 million capital investment to deliver circa
GBP600 million of incremental long-term cash generation.
This slide illustrates how we evaluate M&A opportunities. Essentially, we identify the cash
generation that the acquisition will deliver. This cash generation will be a combination of
organic cash generation as the business runs off together with the incremental cash
generation that will be delivered from both integration activities and wider management
actions. Analyzing the cash generation in this way enables us to determine the IRR and
payback of the deal. It also enables us to identify whether the acquisition supports an
increase in the quantum of our dividend and enhances dividend sustainability.
Finally, I want to talk to you about growth and the wedge. I first presented the concept of
the wedge at our Capital Markets Day back in 2018. A simple hypothesis that the growth
of the Open business can offset the run-off of the in-force business and bring
sustainability to organic cash generation. This hypothesis is unchanged. Before we talk in
more detail about the hypothesis translates into actual numbers, I wanted to set out the
possible outcomes of the wedge hypothesis.
The first thing to remember is that the wedge hypothesis focuses on growth. It is
therefore looking at cash generation that is incremental to the GBP19 billion we expect
our in-force business to generate, which I've already illustrated can support our dividend
at the current stable and sustainable level out to 2040. So even if the growth of our Open
business is less than needed to achieve an offset to organic cash generation, it will extend
the ability of the group to pay its current level of dividend for more years. If a perfect
offset were to be achieved, this would mean that we could pay our current stable and
sustainable dividend in perpetuity. But if we were to over achieve the offset, an organic

Page 11 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

cash generation is growing over time rather than staying flat or decreasing, Phoenix can
consider growing its dividend. And please remember, there is always the expectation that
M&A will create further upside and remains core to our strategy.
We always get asked lots of questions about the maths that sits behind the wedge and
how the acquisition of ReAssure and our evolving strategy has changed this maths. I am
therefore going to spend time today running you through how we model the wedge
internally. The wedge hypothesis continues to be focused on organic cash generation
only. Management actions and M&A are additional to this and it does not include free
surplus.
I explained earlier that we expect our in-force business to generate circa GBP14 billion of
long-term organic cash generation. In 2020, we will see GBP800 million of this organic
cash generation emerge and we expect this level of organic cash generation to reduce at
around 6% per annum as the in-force business runs off.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide shows the gap that the Open business needs to fill through growth to maintain
GBP800 million organic cash generation each year. When we write new business, we
quantify on day one the amount of incremental long-term cash generation that it delivers
over the lifetime of the business. The emergence of this cash generation over time is
driven by the type of business being written. With BPA now integral to our Open business
and expect it to be a material proportion of new business each year, our wedge
illustration assumes that 6% of the cash generation emerges in year one and this amount
runs off at 6% per annum consistent with the assumption that we are using for our
Heritage business.
You can see, therefore, that if we delivered GBP800 million of long-term cash generation
from new business, this would emerge as GBP48 million of incremental organic cash
generation in 2021, running off at 6% per annum thereafter. Modeling this forward over
consecutive years shows that the wedge hypothesis is proven if our Open business can
deliver GBP800 million of incremental long-term cash generation each year. Delivering
less than GBP800 million of long-term cash generation is still additive to cash generation,
but it will not achieve a full offset in the in-force business run-off. And delivering more than
GBP800 million will more than offset the in-force business run-off and would satisfy, one
of the two criteria needed for us to consider growing the dividend.
So, the next question is, whether GBP800 million of incremental long-term cash
generation from new business is achievable. The simple answer is, yes. Andy Curran will
talk through our Open business in more detail later. But by reducing the capital strain on
BPA and increasing the capital we are allocating to BPA, GBP250 million, we expect to
generate GBP600 million of long-term cash generation per year. And by investing in our
workplace proposition and supporting our customers as they journey to and through
retirement, we can build on the solid foundations of our existing workplace and CS&I
businesses and deliver in excess of GBP800 million of long-term cash generation from
new business.

Page 12 of 43



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Earlier, I explained that we will be introducing a new cash metric, long term free cash. This
is a Group level metric that quantify the amount of cash available in the business for
growth and returns to shareholders. Each year, we will report to you, how the amount of
long-term free cash has changed. Increases will be driven by the sources of long-term
cash, ie, new business and over delivery of management actions. And decreases will
reflect the uses of cash at Holdco level, including expenses, interest and dividends. This
reconciliation will highlight whether the Group is replenishing the cash that it uses year-onyear. It is not exactly the same as proving the wedge, as it does not focus solely on
organic cash generation. However, it will evidence whether the business is growing and in
conjunction with growing organic cash generation, will be the criteria for determining
whether the business supports a growing dividend.
Before I conclude, I wanted to share with you one final exhibit. I'm often asked whether
we would turn away further Heritage M&A because it weakens as the wedge hypothesis
and undermines our desire to deliver growth. This could not be further from the truth. This
Slide shows how M&A has delivered significant growth to both organic cash generation
and to our dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

Heritage M&A will increase how much incremental cash generation we need the Open
business to deliver each year to offset the in-force run-off. But Heritage M&A also
provides the surplus capital needed to fund that growth, enabling us to become a growth
compounder.
Our financial framework is supported by clear set of reporting metrics, aligned to our key
attributes of cash, resilience and growth. We are supplementing the metrics with the
addition of a new long-term free cash metric and we will reconcile the movements in this
year-on-year to illustrate whether our business is growing or not.
To conclude, cash, resilience and growth remain at the core of Phoenix's financial
framework. Phoenix's resilient cash generation from the current in-force business
supports the dividend for many years. We have a clear criteria for allocating surplus capital
to growth through BPA and M&A and to enhance shareholder returns in the absence of
growth opportunities. New reporting metrics within Phoenix's financial framework will allow
us to track the business's growth and proving the wedge alongside growing long term
free cash would allow us to consider dividend growth.
I will now hand over to Claire, who will talk to you about sustainability.

Claire Hawkins

{BIO 20555563 <GO>}

Thank you, Rakesh, and welcome to the first of today's deep dive sessions. Phoenix
published its first sustainability report in March and set out its vision of committing to a
sustainable future. We've made significant progress against the broad range of
commitments set out in this report and we're on track to complete all of the 2020 actions
on time. However, the world we operate in and the needs of all stakeholders are
changing and, as a result, our sustainability strategy is evolving at pace. It addresses the

Page 13 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

critical trends impacting our industry, including the aging population and the responsibility
to address global environmental challenges.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Our strategy focuses on delivering for our 14 million customers and investing of GBP323
billion of assets under administration in a sustainable manner. It is fully embedded into our
business activities, integral to how we interact with all stakeholders, and underpinned by
good governance and risk management.
As Andy explained earlier, we see sustainability as being at the core of our new purpose
of helping people secure a life of possibilities and the key enabler of our strategy. And by
meeting the needs of our stakeholders, we will attract more customers, retain and attract
the best talent and deliver better returns to investors. The impact of climate change is
one of the biggest global issues and Phoenix is committed to supporting the goals of the
Paris Agreement. Today, we have announced our commitment to becoming net zero
carbon by 2050, using science-based techniques.
Our commitment has 2 key components. The first, relates to the impact of our
operations, where we are setting a target of being net zero carbon by 2025. And the
second, relates to our investment portfolio, where we are setting an overarching target of
being net zero carbon by 2050. We recognize that there are many considerations in
delivering this investment target and our immediate focus, will be on our equity and liquid
credit portfolios, which comprise around a third of our total assets under administration.
Our strategy for decarbonization will focus on reducing the carbon intensity of our
portfolios, increasing investment in Climate Solutions, such as renewable energy and
energy-efficient technologies and Paris aligned stewardship, to influence investee
companies to transition to a low-carbon economy. Having set these commitments, we will
focus on developing interim targets, which will be reported in due course.
As you have heard, our enterprise strategy focuses on deepening our relationships with
our existing customers, and acquiring new customers, by meeting needs across the
savings life cycle. Our sustainability strategy aligns fully to this and is focused on helping
close the growing savings pension gap. To achieve this, we will focus on product
innovation and promoting financial inclusion and education across demographics, with
particular focus on supporting vulnerable customer groups. We are in the process of
concluding a customer research project, aimed at better understanding the needs of our
existing customers, in relation to sustainability. This research will support the ongoing
development of a range of ESG products, across the savings life cycle. With the go-live of
our workplace, ESG passive default fund, on the 15th of December.
We already support customers in the run-up to retirement, through telephony, digital,
face-to-face events and webinars. We will broaden and extend the reach of our financial
wellness offering in the future, across life stages and needs. Finally, Andy Moss and Andy
Curran will talk later, about our investment in digital across both our Heritage and our
Open businesses. We will be increasingly focused on driving forward our digital strategy
with the aim of increasing education and engagement and promoting financial wellbeing.

Page 14 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Now, as an asset owner, we act on behalf of our customers to invest responsibly and with
a long-term view. Mike will talk later about how it is essential for us to factor sustainability
considerations into our investment decisions.

FINAL

Our net zero commitment demonstrates our focus on decarbonizing our portfolios.
Through our membership at the IIGCC, we are one of the five insurers who took part in a
pilot to build and test Paris-aligned portfolios. This has provided valuable insight into how
we will implement our net zero commitment. In 2019, we set out our philosophy for
responsible investment. Clearly, this requires a different approach for those assets where
we have the ability to directly influence decisions and those assets which remain at the
sole discretion of our customers. We are committed to establishing robust policies and
procedures for understanding and addressing the ESG risks across all portfolios. Active
stewardship is critical to the delivery of our ambitions and to meeting on net zero carbon
commitment. So we are working in partnership with our asset managers to include
sustainability considerations within that mandates. And this will enable an integrated
approach to ESG management and investment decision-making.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to make good progress towards reducing the environmental impact of our
operations and believe our commitment to achieve net zero carbon by 2025 is market
leading. We are preparing a challenging emissions reduction plan in line with signs based
techniques to fall our route to net zero, which begins from a baseline of emissions from
all 22 occupied premises within the group. Our focus will be to reduce carbon emissions
before we engage with any offsetting.
We started our journey by supplying of Phoenix UK sites with electricity contracts that are
100% renewable energy and we will bring all of our occupied premises online during 2021.
Where renewable energy is not available, we will use offsetting projects. These are
already in place the Phoenix UK sites and will soon be extended to cover all sites, making
sure that the programs we choose are impactful, certified and focused on carbon
removal.
Similarly, for waste, we will be working to eliminate waste to landfill across all sites through
2021. And having already removed single use plastics from some of our UK catering
facilities, we will continue the work to cover all UK sites next year.
We are committed to making Phoenix the best place our colleagues have ever worked. To
achieve this, we want to be an organization where diversity of thoughts and perspective is
genuinely embraced. We've made strong progress across each of our five areas of focus,
and a wide range of pledges and accreditations across social mobility, race, disability,
mental health and gender, evidences our commitment. As ways of workings change, we
are committed to adapting quickly and providing solutions in the best interests of all
colleagues. We've seen this aspiration tested during the pandemic, when our priorities
have been to protect colleagues and customers. Whilst our offices have remained open,
we continue to have around 90% of all colleagues working from home. And we are in the
process of conducting a Group wide employee engagement exercise, to determine our
future ways of working.

Page 15 of 43



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

2020 has clearly been a difficult year for our colleagues and we are extremely grateful to
them for the hard work and commitment they have shown. Despite these challenges,
we've been delighted that the recent annual engagement survey reported an increase of
10% in overall engagement year-on-year. We remain deeply committed to supporting our
communities and continue to have a comprehensive community engagement program. At
the heart of this program are all colleagues, who continue to commit both, their time and
their skills, to making a difference. These programs have needed to flex during COVID,
embracing more remote volunteering and fundraising. Moving forwards, our colleagues
will be voting to form a new partnership with a UK wide mental health charity and we will
be focused on better understanding the needs of the different communities in which we
are based, ensuring that we prioritize our activities by measuring the social value that
each initiative delivers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Working ethically with our supply chain is integral to our sustainability strategy. Our supply
chain management framework, takes a multifaceted approach to assessing and managing
sustainability risk. Using this framework, we will work in partnership with our suppliers, to
focus on the issues which we see as key. These will include, the environmental impact of
our supply chain, including decarbonization and health and safety. This work will be done in
a phased approach during 2021 based on the importance of each supply to the group and
our assessment of the risk that each supplier poses to the supply chain.
Now our sustainability strategy is underpinned by good governance and sustainability risk
is fully integrated into our risk management framework. In recognition of the importance
of sustainability to the long-term success of the group, the Phoenix Group Board have
established a new sustainability subcommittee chaired by Karen Green and comprised
solely of non-executive directors. This committee will be responsible for the review,
challenge and oversight of the group sustainability strategy.
I'm really looking forward to be an executive attendee of this committee. I believe it will
provide the challenge needed to ensure our sustainability strategy, creates value for
stakeholders. And our increased commitment to sustainability is translating into
improvements in our ESG ratings with recent upgrades from MSCI and the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index. Whilst these improvements are encouraging, we still have a long way
to travel and expect all ratings to improve further once delivery of the ambitions I have
shared today.
To conclude, sustainability is integral to Phoenix's purpose of helping people secure a life
of possibilities. Our strategy is focused on delivering for customers and fostering
responsible investment and we are committed to becoming net zero carbon by 2050
targeting the significantly earlier date of 2025 for our operations. The newly created
Board Sustainability Committee will provide oversight of our ambitions. And by closely
aligning our sustainability strategy to our enterprise strategy, I am confident that we will
deliver value to all stakeholders.
I will now hand you over to Andy Moss, who will talk to you about our Heritage business.

Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}
Page 16 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

Thank you very much, Claire; and good afternoon, everyone. Phoenix is the market leader
in managing Heritage businesses. We have a number of competitive advantages, driven
from the optimized operating model we have developed over a number of years. The
business covers a broad range of unit linked with profits and protection products that are
no longer actively marketed to new customers and comprises circa 50% of our in-force
book with 8.3 million policies and GBP162 billion of assets under administration.
Our strategy here is unchanged, to deliver customer outcomes and manage our in-force
business for cash and resilience. The unique and distinctive nature of our Heritage
strategy positions us to outperform. At the heart of our in-force business, is our optimized
operating model. This model comprises a core digitally enabled customer administration
platform, a single set of actuary and accounting processes and platforms, including a
single internal model, a harmonized approach to risk management, which delivers
resilience of the business and a single investment strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a team, our time is therefore focused on further optimizing this operating model,
which we do by delivering for customers, executing management actions and integrating
the businesses that we acquire. As a result of this, we deliver improved customer
outcomes and cost and capital efficiencies. This strategy delivers cash, resilience and
growth and supports three of the key components of our wedge illustration, being
Heritage, management actions and the integration synergies, which are realized from
M&A.
As Claire explained, delivering for our customers is central to our sustainability strategy
and is fully aligned to our purpose of helping people secure a life of possibilities. By
putting customers at the heart of all that we do in our Heritage business, we have
developed a long track record of improving customer outcomes, consistently delivering
high quality customer service and by investing in our digital proposition, we have
improved the ease of interaction for our customers.
Turning to our track record of improving customer outcomes. Our actions here are wideranging and show the breadth of our customer service activities. Not only have we
delivered strong value for money for customers by reducing charges and investment
management fees on their policies, we've also traced and repatriated policyholders with
unclaimed life insurance policies. I'm particularly pleased we've taken a very proactive role
in preventing pensions fraud and continue to take an active role with government and
industry influences, on topics that matter most to our customers, like the pensions
dashboard.
We've also demonstrated that we are a safe pair of hands in the remediation of legacy
reviews. For example, Abbey Life, which was a business we acquired whilst it was on the
FCA enforcement. We continue to target a 90% level of customer satisfaction and have
been delighted to deliver ahead of this target for a number of years. This has been
particularly pleasing this year, when we have proactively managed the many challenges
arising from COVID-19.

Page 17 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

In responding to the pandemic, we contacted 1.2 million customers, encouraged them to
move to digital interactions and delivered over 80 online enhancements. We introduced
COVID-19 dedicated customer support and help Pages online and kept our call centers
open at all times. In addition, we encouraged the new attends to accept bank transfers,
rather than their traditional method of receiving a cheque and offer premium flexibility to
support those suffering from financial hardship.
Phoenix has been invested in the development of it's digital platform for Heritage
customers. Our focus to date has been on improving availability and convenience, whilst
expanding the journeys that can be completed online. All legacy Phoenix customers can
access our website, which provides information help and education to support decision
making. We've also developed the logged-in environment, My Phoenix, where our priority
has been the introduction of digital journeys for the convenience of our customers.
Moving forward, we will continue to expand this offering, with our focus being to provide a
service, to meet our customers needs, to engage more easily with customers and to
improve efficiency. We are excited about the future opportunities this presents to both
the Group and our customers.
Moving now to management actions, the bedrock of Phoenix Heritage capabilities. The
majority of our cash generation comes from the emergence of surplus as our in-force
business runs off over time and capital on volumes. We call this organic cash generation.
However, at Phoenix, we also deliver management actions which are incremental to the
organic unwind. These actions either increase our own funds and therefore increase the
overall cash flows in the business or reduce risk capital and therefore accelerate the
timing of cash flows. Our track record of delivery management actions is unique. We have
delivered GBP2.5 billion of additional cash generation from management actions,
between 2010 and 2019, with a further GBP0.6 billion, of Solvency II surplus generated by
the end of Q3.
Typically, management actions comprise a third of cash generation and our long track
record illustrates their dependable nature. Management actions are lumpy, and we do
typically see more delivered in the period immediately following M&A, as we integrate
businesses together, but they are not dependent on M&A, as our long track record
illustrates. Our 2020 management actions also evidence at this point, with a wide range
of items including, our liquid asset origination, credit management, asset restructuring and
equity risk hedging. Equity hedging is the only action directly attributable to M&A. I wanted
to spend a few minutes looking at a couple of management actions in detail, to better
explain how we deliver value.
The first example examines the Solvency II benefit driven by liquid asset origination. We
calculate the present value of our annuity liabilities using a discount rate derived from the
yield on the assets that our cash flow matching the liability. Long-dated or illiquid assets
better match the long-dated nature of our liabilities and typically have a higher yield to
reflect in a liquidity premium.
Replacing liquid assets with a liquid assets therefore increases the discount rate and
reduces the present value of our annuity liabilities. This is the matching adjustment
benefit. Against these assets, we prudently hold additional risk capital, which will unwind
Page 18 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

over time. This year, we have seen GBP265 million increase in own funds from the GBP1.4
billion of liquid assets originated. Mike will talk later about our appetite for liquid assets,
but we do expect to deliver significant further value in future years as we move from 24%
to 40% of liquid assets against our GBP39 billion annuity book.
The second management action explores the benefit delivered by hedging ratios equity
risk. Phoenix views equity risk as an unrewarded risks and uses hedging to manage its
exposure. It is therefore commonplace to Phoenix to extend its approach to hedging
across future acquisitions from the date of the announcement.
In the case of ReAssure, we took out hedges to increase the hedging of ReAssure equity
risk from 40% to 80%. These hedges were initially held at the Phoenix Group level, but
have subsequently been passed down to ReAssure. By hedging this exposure, GBP120
million of equity release capital has been released.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking to the future, our GBP5.9 billion cash generation target for 2020 to 2023 includes
GBP2 billion of management actions. We continue to have a strong pipeline of actions that
underpin our confidence in this target, including longevity reinsurance, liquid asset
origination, Part VII transfers and further operational efficiencies. We only place value on
management actions out to 2023. However, we expect there to be opportunities for
management actions over the life of our in-force business. New opportunities for
management actions also rises our environment changes. Future M&A is an obvious
example of an opportunity for cost and capital synergies, but we also see regulatory
change, digitalization under our macroeconomic environment as potential sources of
value generation.
Turning finally to our integration capabilities. Phoenix and ReAssure have been leaders in
the consolidation market, with six acquisitions split evenly between us over recent years,
prior to the businesses coming together in July. ReAssure bring additional skills to the
Group which complement our own and additional capacity, which means we'll be ready to
undertake further M&A more quickly. Whilst our legacy businesses are different, our
approach to integration is consistent. Both Groups have focused on accessing cost
efficiencies, by delivering scale to their operating model and unlocking capital efficiencies
through accessing diversification benefits and applying a harmonized approach to risk
management.
In addition, we both sought to optimize investment returns through a single investment
strategy and prioritize delivering in customer outcomes. Whilst our operating models are
different, Phoenix favoring an outsourced model for customer administration, using the
TCS Diligenta BaNCS platform, and ReAssure having an insource model, using the ALPHA
platform, we have both driven cost efficiencies by migrating policies onto a single
platform, and utilized reinsurance and Part VII transfers, to access capital synergies.
The similarities in approach are highlighted through this case study of ReAssure's
acquisition at the Old Mutual wealth business. For those of you who remember our 2018
Capital Markets Day, this case study is extremely similar to that of Phoenix's acquisition of
the AXA Wealth business. ReAssure paid GBP446 million for the business. It had own

Page 19 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

funds measured in accordance with the Old Mutual underlying assumptions of DBP411
million and a surplus of GBP167 million. By harmonizing assumptions for the business to
those of ReAssure, and in particular, reflecting the reduced per policy cost of
administration from migrating policies onto the ALPHA administration platform, additional
loan funds were created.
Further synergies were accessed by reinsuring the business into ReAssure and applying
the Group's hedging policy. These day-one management actions increased the acquired
own funds to GBP584 million, and increased the surplus to GBP442 million, supporting a
cash release of GBP290 million. Thus the deal that looked like it's being conducted at
109% of own funds, became a transaction at 76% of own funds and illustrates the value
that can be created by specialist consolidators of Heritage books.
Part VII transfers, are a key value enabler to consolidators. By moving policies into a single
legal entity, we deliver economies of scale and ensure that customers are serviced from
the most efficient and optimized operating model. However, Part VII transfers required
both regulatory and High Court approval and therefore require significant expertise to
execute successfully. The Part VII of the LNG mature savings business completed in
September. This was an extremely complex transaction, migrating 1.1 million customers,
GBP33 billion of assets under administration from 5 LNG retained platforms and with over
60 different policy types.

Bloomberg Transcript

Migrations of this nature are extremely difficult to deliver successfully. The ability of the
ALPHA platform to perform this extraction of policy evidences our ability to manage both
complexity and uncertainty and deliver value for customers and investors alike.
Our integration approach has three phases, which are approached sequentially. So when
one integration is complete, capacity is created for the next integration to start. Phase III
migration of customer policies onto our administration platforms is the hardest and
longest phase of any integration as shown in the timeline and can be the biggest barrier
to being ready to undertake further M&A. Having two administration platforms in the form
of out from banks is therefore an enabler to the faster integration of acquired businesses.
This slide illustrates that we have the capacity to consider further M&A opportunities now.
Phoenix is very much open for business.
To summarize, Phoenix is the market leader in managing Heritage businesses, driven
from our distinctive operating model and our unique competitive advantages. Our
strategy places customers at the heart of all that we do and we are focused on improving
customer outcomes. We have a strong track record of delivery management actions with
GBP2.5 billion over the last 10 years and will continue to deliver management actions into
the future. Phoenix is also a market leader in M&A and integrations delivering value by
integrating businesses onto our optimized operating model.
And, finally, ReAssure strengthens our capabilities, both in the management of the
Heritage businesses and for M&A and integration, where they bring complementary skills
and additional capacity.
Page 20 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Thank you very much for your attention. I will now pass you over to Andy Curran, who have
been unable to travel due to COVID restrictions and joins us today from Glasgow.

FINAL

Andy Curran

{BIO 18816863 <GO>}

Thank you, Andy. I joined Phoenix this summer and took up the role of CEO of our Savings
and Retirement business in October. This has given me a great opportunity to really
understand the Open business and assess our opportunities to deliver growth. It is clear
to me that our Open business has strong foundations and is central to our purpose of
helping people secure a life of possibilities. The Open business covers 5 business units
and comprises of around half of our in-force pick, with approximately 5.6 million policies
and GBP161 billion of assets under administration.

Bloomberg Transcript

My focus today is on the 3 business units, which we expect to be our major drivers of
growth. I will share with you how we are thinking about our workplace, customer savings
and investment, and retirement solutions business units, all of which gives us a great
opportunity to grow. We have the chance to leverage the competitive advantages we
have today, but I do recognize, we have work to do to realize these opportunities and we
have set ourselves clear strategic priorities, to achieve our ambition. Speaking of
ambition, the cash has outlined, the master underpins the wage. To offset the run-off of
our in-force book and bring sustainability to our organic cash generation, our Open
business must deliver over GBP800 million of incremental long-term cash per annum. This
target is ambitious, but it is also achievable.
In the first 9 months of this year, the Open business delivered GBP472 million of
incremental cash generation from new business. While this is lower than the GBP800
million level needed, we expect to be able to close this gap in future years by increasing
the capital allocated to BPA, while at the same time reducing the capital stream and by
growing our workplace and CS&I businesses, through our investment in products,
proposition and people. Three of the key drivers of growth in the long-term savings and
retirement industry will help to drive growth in our Open business. Growth in workplace is
driven by auto enrolment, aging population and the move from DB to DC. We currently
have a 11% share of the workplace market and our strategy here is to protect and grow.
Naturally, as the UK population ages, more and more people will be on a journey to and
through retirement.
We estimate annual flows of around GBP30 billion into products, supporting this stage of
the saving cycle, which aligns to our CS&I business. Currently, we have less than 5% of the
flows today, we do however have approximately 14 million customers. The strategy here
is to engage and develop relationships with these customers, with ambition that they will
consolidate towards us and stay with Phoenix for longer.
And finally, corporates are de-risking, with around GBP40 billion of DB scheme liabilities,
transferring to the insurance sector each year. We currently have a 5% market share and
our strategy here is to grow and expand. A deep understanding of how each of these
markets work, will be critical to our success. And of course we will only allocate resources,
where they will deliver strong returns. Delivering a similar share of flows to our share of
stocks, will drive significant growth.
Page 21 of 43



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Looking at these markets in a bit more detail, I will now turn to our workplace. The
workplace market will become the main vehicle for retirement savings in the UK and is
forecast to grow from around GBP400 million to GBP1 trillion over the next decade. Within
this market, there will also be a major shift to master trust, driven by our raft of changes in
pension legislation. This presents fantastic opportunity for Phoenix to pickup existing and
new pensions schemes. To be successful, you first have to have a deep understanding of
how this market operates. You need a strong modern proposition, you need excellent
customer engagement, you also need bidding cost efficiency. All under (technical
difficulty) the longer term.
As you will already be aware, we operate in the corporate market under the Standard Life
Brand. We are already a skilled player with over GBP41 billion of assets under
administration. In this capital-light thin-margin market, skill and ongoing proposition
investment, are key attributes to being successful. Our commitment here is evidenced by
our rapid proposition development, over the last year, which we will continue to
accelerate into 2021. Our proposition there offers a wide range of investment solutions
across active and passive funds. Our digital platforms, interactive tools, our automated
member communications, all insure excellent, employer, employee, advisor and trustee
experience. Our reputation in the market for excellent customer service is well deserved.
And our relationship with TCS will help us deliver market-leading cost efficiencies, without
compromising on service levels. Our strategy is to protect and grow our workplace
business from these strong foundations.
As I've just mentioned, our proposition has improved considerably and we will not stop
there. Up and coming enhancements include, time income focus funds, providing a
digitally enabled retirement advice service and a salary deductible ISA. As a whole, it is
clear that our proposition today, stands comparison with any other in the corporate
market. Claire set out the sustainability strategy earlier, which puts customers right at its
heart. Aligned to this strategy, we have made great progress in expanding our range of
ESG investment solutions. Our new ESG passive default fund, launches this month. The
fund has been designed to deliver good member outcomes at retirement, using our
blend of approaches, including exclusions, targeting and influence.
On top of this, we are also launching a range of ESG themed active funds. These funds
will help support Phoenix in meeting our net zero carbon target commitment. Pricing in the
workplace market is competitive. So, efficiency is crucial. Here we have substantial
advantages from operating our Open business, alongside our Heritage business. And
through our unique partnership with TCS, we will migrate to the digitally enabled BaNCS
platform, which will help future-proof our business. It will deliver a modern flexible
platform and supports our continued excellent customer service. And gives us important
market-leading cost efficiency. To summarize, we are already a skilled player in the
corporate market and we are well positioned to deliver and protect and grow strategy.
Moving on to our CS&I business unit. There are a number of key trends driving change
across the long-term savings and retirement industry. In particular, pension freedoms have
given consumers significantly more choice. With more choice, the industry has found it
hard to strike the right balance for the consumer, or the need for more education,
information and advice, while making important financial decisions. At Phoenix, we will
Page 22 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

build on our existing capabilities and become an organization that gives the consumer the
support it so badly needs. As an example, this time is no longer a single event, it's a more
complex transaction for which responsibility has shifted to the individual. Our customers
tell us that they find the journey to retirement confusing and the advice is often too
expensive for their needs and require a digital journey and we get the ball rolling many
would value cadence to help them understand their options and validate their own
thinking.
Few players are capable of engaging customers and providing holistic solutions to help
customers secure their income in retirement. Our CSNI business includes, what we have
previously referred to as, our retail business and Wrap SIPP. For Wrap SIPP, you provide an
insurance offer to the Standard Life Aberdeen platform. This is high volume thin margin
business for Phoenix. We also have drawdown products, individual SIPP and buoyancy
within this business unit.

Bloomberg Transcript

Phoenix market share is currently modest. It is an area of significant potential growth. With
around 14 million customers, Phoenix has an unique opportunity to deepen our
understanding of customer needs and respond to those needs with innovative solutions
throughout the retirement lifecycle. Our strategy here is to engage and develop. We will
achieve this by focusing on the needs of our customers across the four stages of
engagement. This begins with the need for a financial awareness, relates to consideration
where customers need the clarity on the options they have, they'd want to support where
help is needed to validate thinking and finally to transaction.
We will engage with our customers by helping them make consolidation onto our platform
simple and straightforward, by developing more and effective solutions as customers
move to and through retirement and where prompt decisions need to be made directing
them to advisors.
Andy Moss spoke about the strength of our digital capability and our Heritage business,
the same very much applies to our Open business. We have introduced new app
features, implemented priority functionality for aging staff and launched a new investment
hub. Encouragingly, we have seen increased usage of our digital drawdown solution with
over 21,000 customers using online retirement journey by the end of October. This year,
it's in 15 million logins so far, 50% of which have been through the app and we are on
track to achieve GBP1 billion of new cash through digital channels this year. In summary, the
customer savings and investment market is very large, and through improved customer
engagement and product development, we see this as a significant growth opportunity
for Phoenix.
And finally turning to retirement solutions. This includes both vesting annuities and BPA,
the total assets under administration of GBP38 billion. There are over GBP2 trillion of DB
pension liabilities in the UK, and it is estimated that GBP1.2 trillion of these liabilities are
sufficiently well funded for a buyout or a buy in. We expect to continue to see demand for
DB de-risking remains strong. Our CEOs and finance directors of corporates continue to
look to focus on their business, rather than their Company pension scheme. Having
entered the external BPA market in 2018, Phoenix is now an established player. Having
risen GBP5.7 billion of liabilities across both internal buy-ins and external BPA.
Page 23 of 43



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Our market share is currently circa 5%. Our ambition here is to grow and expand this
business unit. We will fund BPA from own resource and we will allocate GBP150 million to
GBP200 million of surplus capital per annum. Subject of course to meeting allocations in
expectations, our own returns on capital. And we will target deals in the GBP100 million to
GBP1 billion, range. However, we will continue to be selective and proportionate, focused
on the value, not volume, and ensuring that annuities do not become an overly dominant
proportion of the Group's total product mix. While our deal economics continue to
improve, we are still seeing a capital strain of 8%, inclusive of our capital management
policy. Our focus is on reducing this capital strain from 8% to 5%, which will be achieved by
optimizing capital within the framework of the harmonized internal model, our best-inclass approach to the sourcing and allocation of the liquid assets and by optimizing our
approach to the insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

With these deal economics, a GBP150 million of capital investment will generate around
GBP600 million of incremental long-term cash generation. A significant step on our way to
improving the wedge. To grow our BPA business, we must strengthen our capabilities.
And Mike will talk next about his plans to build a best-in-class asset management
capability that will support our growth strategy. We will also be looking to expand our
proposition, develop our operating model and build de-risking partnerships and look
forward to welcoming Tom Ground as Managing Director of this business in January.
Before I conclude, I thought I share with you an example of how our ability to build
longstanding relationships facilitates follow-on transaction. Our first external BPA or with
the M&A scheme back in March 2018. This is a scheme, which uses umbrella contracts to
undertake a rolling program of buy-in tranches. Phoenix applied a solutions-focused
approach to work with the trustees, recognizing the schemes commitment to reduce
longevity risk over time. By working collaboratively with advisors and trustees and
reinsurers, we were able to improve transaction efficiency. This approach also allowed us
to provide attractive pricing. We have now completed three transactions and issued
GBP1.2 billion of liabilities with the M&A scheme, covering 30% of pension liabilities.
So to summarize, our Open business is central to our purpose of helping people secure a
life of possibilities. We have strong foundations and are aligned to the industry drivers of
change. We are a top three workplace provider and are accelerating our investment in
propositions to protect and grow in this market. By deepening our customer relationships,
we will retain our customers and they will consolidate towards us as well as helping them
joining to and through retirement. We are an established player in the BPA market and are
focused on improving our capital efficiency to ensure the capital we allocate deliver strong
returns.
Through the delivery of these strategic priorities, I am confident that delivering GBP800
million of incremental cash generation from new business is achievable. We can through
the wedge.
I will now hand over to Mike, who will take you through our approach to asset
management.

Page 24 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

Mike Eakins

{BIO 21096986 <GO>}

Thank you, Andy, and good afternoon. I joined the group in July this year when Phoenix's
acquisition of ReAssure completed having held the role of CIO at ReAssure for just over
12 months. I am super excited about the shared vision that Andy Briggs and I have for inhouse asset management at Phoenix and that is to be best-in-class. The Phoenix Asset
Management team brings together all investment activities across both shareholder and
policyholder assets, across both Heritage and Open Businesses. Our Asset Management
strategy has three clear priorities. One, to manage our asset risk for Solvency II balance
sheet resilience, two, to source assets that support our growth aspirations and deliver
management actions, and three, to embed the principles of responsible investing in all
that we do.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our ambition of being a center of excellence will be delivered by our people and our
operating platform. My team has dedicated shareholder and policyholder teams, who are
supported by specialist teams, focused on internal ratings, ALM, sustainability, constant
strategies operations and manager oversight. I'm fortunate to been able to recruit some
of the best and most experienced talent in the sector, within the Asset Management, and
insurance sectors, to ensure we have in-house expertise, across liquid credit, illiquid
assets and interest rate markets.
We are investing in operating model, using the latest technology to implement a leading
investment platform and risk management system across the Group. Phoenix Asset
Management operates as a shared service. We are there to provide investment solutions
across the Group. So put simply, my priorities are the priorities of Andy Moss and Andy
Curran and therefore totally align to the Group purpose of helping people secure a life of
possibilities. But our real competitive advantages comes from our global strategic
partnerships, which we can leverage to deliver optimal investment outcomes. Aberdeen
Standard Investments or ASI as we refer to them, are a core strategic asset management
partner. The strategic partnership fosters collaborative working and I've been extremely
impressed with the level of support we have received from all levels of engagement with
ASI on a day-to-day basis. We also use a wide range and increasingly large range of other
asset management partners and this network is becoming truly global to ensure that we
deliver best-in-class performance across all asset classes and geographies.
For example, as it relates to infrastructure debt, we also partner with Macquarie and
BlackRock. The flexibility that this network affords us, ensures we can leverage the very
best experience available. Now as Claire set out earlier, responsible investing is at the
core of our investment strategy and will deliver long-term benefits to policyholders,
investors and society. In 2019, we published our responsible investment philosophy,
representing a step change in our approach to integrating ESG into our investment
strategy. Our philosophy is based on the principles of the United Nations PRI and I am
delighted to confirm that we have recently become members of the United Nations PRI.
Our commitment to decarbonize our investment portfolio and be net zero carbon by
2050 is integral to this. But we recognize that commitments are not enough on their own.
Delivery is key and delivery will be contingent on the integration of ESG factors into our

Page 25 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

investment making decisions and it will be dependent upon high quality data and
reporting, key areas of focus for us right now.

FINAL

We also recognize our stewardship responsibilities and will adopt an engagement-first
approach with the objective of using our position of influence to bring about change.
Inactivity will however ultimately lead to divestment.
Having explained our approach to asset management, I want to spend some time
explaining how our asset management strategy delivers resilience through proactive risk
management and building on some of the management actions discussed by Rakesh. We
decompose market risks into two categories. One, those that we view as unrewarded,
such as interest rates, inflation, FX and equity, all of which are managed within risk
appetite through systematic hedging. And, two, those that we see as rewarded, like
credit and property, which we manage within risk appetite through disciplined investment.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a result of our approach to risk management, just over 40% of our residual
shareholder risk is driven by market risk. This approach to the setting and management of
market risk appetite is different to our peers and translates into the low sensitivities
presented here. Many of you will be familiar with this exhibit. It sets out the impact on both
our Solvency II surplus and coverage ratio of risk events occurring as at the 30th of
September. And shows that we remain within our target coverage ratio under all
scenarios.
You will note that the sensitivity of our Solvency II surplus to the unrewarded risk of equity
and interest rates is negligible and that our proactive management of risks, such as credit
and property, means our sensitivity to these risks is also small.
But I wanted to explain how we achieve these low sensitivities. Starting first with equity
risk. Here, the shareholders exposure is an indirect exposure it has to the risk profit and
unit linked funds. This exposure is largest in the unit linked funds, where a decline in equity
markets erodes the value of the unit linked funds and therefore reduces the present
value of future profits or ViF.
In total, we carry GBP4.9 billion of ViF on our balance sheet and hedge between 80% and
90% of this exposure through a rolling program of options, futures and forward contracts.
The chart on the right-hand side shows how our sensitivity would change if we didn't
hedge equity risk. A 20% fall in equity markets would increase the strain on our Solvency II
surplus from a negligible amount to GBP0.5 billion.
Moving now to interest rates, where the shareholder exposure is driven primarily from the
annuity book. Our objective is to reduce our exposure to interest rates and bring
resilience to the Solvency II surplus. We do this initially through cash flow matching in our
neutral funds and then you swap some swaptions to hedge the remainder of our interest
rate exposure. We have hedged over 85% of our interest rate risk, representing
approximately GBP13 million per basis point movement in interest rates. This hedging
strategy bring significant protection to shareholder value and without it, our sensitivity to
an 88 basis point fall in interest rates would increase from GBP0.2 billion reduction in
Page 26 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Solvency II surplus, to a GBP1.2 billion pound reduction. Our exposure to the rewarded
risks of credit and property, are driven from our GBP46 billion share of AXA Portfolio. The
assets backing our new -- news liabilities represent GBP39 billion, with the remaining GBP7
billion representing assets backing protection business and other shareholder capital. The
shareholder portfolio includes a range of liquid and illiquid assets, and is diversified across
ratings, sectors, and geographies.
Our shareholder assets included a GBP35 billion debt portfolio, comprising of Gilson
Soopers, corporate bonds, liquid credit, excluding commercial real estate debt and equity
release mortgages. We have a dedicated in-house team of market-leading credit experts,
who proactively manage this portfolio on a daily basis. The portfolio is defensively
positioned with minimal exposure to companies most impacted by COVID-19, in sectors
such as airlines, hotel, leisure and traditional retail. The Group's debt portfolio is high
quality, with 98% at investment grade and only 2% of the portfolio is sitting at triple BBBminus. Historically, ReAssure's exposure to BBB was significantly higher than that of
Phoenix, and we have been proactively reducing the exposure to BBB throughout the
year.
On a combined basis, the BBB and below exposure, expressed as a percentage of our
debt portfolio, was at 23.5% at the half year. Through the delivery of management
actions, including rotation into US dollar investment grade credit, this exposure has been
reduced to 19.7% at the 20th of November. The material reduction in BBB exposure, has,
in a large part, been delivered through portfolio block trades. Not only do these block
trades help improve our credit quality, but they have supported our ambition to diversify
into US dollar investment grade credits and have been a value creating management
action. These trades are only possible because of the expertise within the Phoenix Asset
Management function.
Portfolios are constructed in accordance with clear investment criteria and their impact
assessed on the aggregate balance sheet, prior to execution. We then execute these
block trades, with the help and support of our asset management and bank partners. To
give you an example of a recent block trade, in September, Phoenix Asset Management
rotated GBP210 million out of Sterling credit, into dollar credit, generating Solvency II
surplus. It should be noted, that all dollar bonds are hedged back to sterling by using
cross currency swap matching the term of the bonds.
The outcome of this management action is limited downgrade experience. The chart
shows that the average credit rating of each sector within our debt portfolio has been
maintained. As at the 30th of September, only GBP1.6 billion or 4.5% of the bonds in our
debt portfolio have been subject to a full letter downgrade and only GBP148 million or
0.4% from our debt portfolio, which is sub-investment grade. 99.3% of all cash flows have
been paid on our liquid bonds and 99.9% have been paid on our liquid bonds. This
performance is directly driven by Phoenix's approach to managing credit risk and the high
quality team we have in place.
Phoenix exposure to property risk is primarily driven by a GBP3.3 billion equity release
portfolio. This portfolio is highly resilient and well diversified. We have clearly defined risk
appetite parameters for this investment class and our selective approach to origination
Page 27 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

impose a strict hurdle criteria on rating, duration and diversification. We monitor the
portfolio on an ongoing basis through stress and scenario testing and will continue to
evaluate the use of no negative, equity guarantee hedging.
Annuity liabilities are long-dated and is therefore optimal to put long-dated our illiquid
assets against our unusually liabilities to achieve cash flow matching. Our current GBP9.3
billion illiquid portfolio is well diversified across asset type and sub-sector. In addition to
our equity release mortgage portfolio, our illiquid portfolio comprises of private
placements, UK local authority loans, commercial real estate and infrastructure debt. The
portfolio has a high credit quality with around 75% of the portfolio-rated single or above.

Bloomberg Transcript

As Andy Curran explained earlier, BPA is a driver of growth for Phoenix and appropriate
illiquid assets sourcing is a key enabler to reducing the capital strain we incur from the
current level of 8% to the target of 5%. To meet the expected growth of our BPA
business and achieve our 40% target strategic asset allocation, we aim subject to
prevailing market conditions to source GBP3 billion of illiquid assets per annum. However,
we will continue to be driven by value and not volume, quality and not quantity.
As a reference point, over the course of the third quarter of 2020, of the potential illiquid
asset investment screened, only 12.5% were invested. We will achieve this increased
origination target by expansion of our investment strategies across new assets and
geographies with fully integrated sustainability objectives. In 2020, we've originated
GBP1.4 billion of illiquid assets across a range of durations with an average credit rating of
Single-A. Illiquid asset origination continues to be one of our key management actions,
delivering a GBP0.1 billion increase in Solvency II surplus. On a going forward basis, we will
be expanding our ability to originate directly with borrowers, so that we can augment the
origination through our asset management partners. It is in our illiquid assets sourcing,
that we can most easily see the impact of our commitment to responsible investing. With
50% of our liquid asset origination this year, being into ESG assets. And integral to this
illiquid asset origination is our program of helping build back Britain better. I've included on
this Slide, 2 great examples of this program in action.
The first, Project Albion is a renewable energy portfolio, across onshore wind, hydro and
solar power, with investments in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The
second, Project TunTum, is a community-based housing association, with a BAME focus,
based in the East Midlands, it is approximately 1400 homes, providing affordable housing
to over 3,000 people. We really look forward to playing a key role in society over the
coming years, putting our assets to good use and supporting our Group purpose of
helping people secure a life of possibilities.
So, to conclude, Phoenix is building a best-in-class in-house asset management team,
which has the unique advantage of being able to partner with global asset managers and
ASI as our core strategic asset management partner. Sustainable investing is integral to
our investment strategy and aligned to the Group's purpose. Integral to this is our
commitment for our investment portfolio to be net zero carbon by 2050. A key priority is
managing market risk. We deliver resilience by hedging un-rewarded risks, like equity,
interest rates and FX, and proactively manage rewarded risks, like credit, through a well
diversified, high quality, defensively positioned portfolio. Illiquid assets, provide great
Page 28 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

matching for annuity liabilities and our ability to originate high quality illiquid assets
supports the growth of our BPA business and drives capital efficiency.
I'm now going to hand back to Andy Briggs, to summarize.

FINAL

Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thank you, Mike. I'm incredibly excited about the creation of Phoenix Asset Management.
The combination of the right team and the right strategy, means we're very confident of
the impact Mike and his team will have on our broader strategic delivery. We've run
through a lot of detail today and there has been much to absorb. Before we move to
Q&A, I wanted to try and put it altogether. Therefore, if there were 3 things I'd urge you
to take away today, they would be asset purpose. As the UK's largest long-term savings
and retirement business, Phoenix has a clear role to play in society and that's what
underpins our new purpose, helping people secure a life of possibilities with sustainability
at our core. I passionately believe that the best businesses have the best people, are
customer obsessed and focused on their core social purpose to in turn drive superior
returns to shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

A virtuous circle and that's what we're doing here at Phoenix. Second, our clear strategy.
This starts by leveraging our market leading share of in-force business in the UK longterm savings and retirement market. And then, we're extremely well placed to take
advantage of the major market trends. By deepening our existing customer relationships
across our 14 million customers and acquiring new customers through new workplace and
BPA business and through M&A.
And third, we will win because we have unique advantages, our resilience, our
dependable cash and our excess cash to invest in growth, all of which we've evidenced
over a long-time period including most recently through the challenges of the pandemic.
And because of Phoenix, the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. Our Open
businesses have unique advantages from operating alongside Heritage and given the
scale of our Heritage and Open businesses, we can deliver higher synergies and hence
more value from M&A. All in all, a unique combination of dependable resilience and
exciting growth opportunities. Thank you.
And with that, we'll now move to Q&A. So for the sell-side analysts, now is the time to dial
in to the recording, so that you're able to dial into the telephone conference. So you're
able to answer -- ask your questions live into the room here. While you're doing that. We
also have questions coming through on the webcast.
So Vicky, could we have the first question from the webcast, please.

Questions And Answers
Operator

Page 29 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Thank you, Andy. So the first question. When do you expect to be ready to undertake your
next M&A deal. And would you consider buying a 100% open business?

FINAL

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Okay, thanks for that, Vicky. So much as Andy most covered. We are ready to do the next
deal now because we're well advanced in the first phase of the integration of Phoenix and
ReAssure which is bringing head offices together, but were we to do another deal now,
we would need to wait a while before we're ready to do the second and third phases of
finance and actuarial and the operations in IT. And as a result of that, we're not currently
pounding the streets desperately looking for our next deal, but we are optimistic about
the opportunities for M&A in the UK market and if the right opportunity came along, we
would be in a position to do it.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the types of deal, there is probably two observations I'd make. One is that I
often hear people say, Phoenix could only do a massive deal that a smaller deal just
wouldn't work, but that's just not the case. It's all from my perspective. Yes, we'd be
interested in larger deals, but I think Andy Moss gave a great example of the ReAssure
deal for Old Mutual wealth where there was well over 200 million of day one synergy
benefits delivered on that deal.
So and if you think now that the combined group. We've got seven and half thousand
people, we can have a small group of people doing a smaller bolt-on deal every year and
if each of those generates a couple hundred million of value. That's really significant in the
scheme of an annual cost of dividend of GBP480 million and then the final part of the
question, would we consider 100% Open business. So our priority remains Heritage
businesses. We think that's where the biggest opportunity lies, but we would consider
100% Open business. Two criteria for that. The first is strategic environment. So, is it going
to support the strategic direction will go again as an organization, bring new capabilities
that will be valuable to us.
And then secondly, that the clear criteria that Rupesh has set out. So it needs to be value
accretive, it needs to support cash generation for the dividend and we need to maintain
our investment grade rating. Those three criteria will continue to apply. Okay, so Jess is
our operator here today. Jess, do we have any questions yet from the analyst team.

Operator
Yes, we have a few questions in the queue. The first question comes from the line of
Andrew Sinclair from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks, and good afternoon, everyone. Three from me, if that's okay. Firstly, you
mentioned that you can optimize capital efficiency for BPA business and that should be
better than peers given diversification of Heritage, just really wondered if you could give
some context around that. What level of diversification benefit advantage do you think
can be achieved and given the 5% extreme [ph] target remains higher than some peers.
How will -- can this goes? That's question one. Question two, I know you've talked about
Page 30 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

partnerships with your and for Asset Management, but with your in-house expertise
building to very interested in-sourcing some of the asset management services currently
outsourced how much can be done without partners.
And third, was just on Europe. I'm trying not to ask you something candid. But you talked
about strategic optionality, just really interested, what would you do with any proceeds if
you were to dispose off Europe or anything else for that fact and (inaudible) future M&A
get back to shareholders, interested in your thoughts there.

A - Andy Curran

{BIO 18816863 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much, Andy. So I'm going to get Rakesh to answer the -- your first
question around BPA, capital efficiency and diversification with the rest of the book of
business. I'll get Mike to answer the second question on asset management partnerships
and in-house and I'll pick up the -- your third question, I'll do that but first if I may, on
Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I mean, we've got a significant presence in Europe, established businesses,
geographic focus obviously being Germany and Ireland. I've always said that I think that
gives us potential strategic optionality whereby we could take our unique M&A capability
that we've deployed in the UK and move it internationally, but we have had a number of
approaches for those businesses and have concluded the right thing to do is just to stand
back and think about our strategic options, very early stages, no decisions made on which
option we might pursue and certainly thoughts of early to be thinking about what we may
or may not look to do with any proceeds if that was the conclusion we came to needless
to say, we will update you as and when there is anything more to say.
Rakesh, do you want to pick up the -- Andy's first question?

A - Rakesh Thakrar

{BIO 20549114 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Andy. So your question Andy was around the potential capital efficiency
between Open and Heritage. And as I both myself and Andy currently have explained,
what we're trying to do is get that 8% BPA strain down 2% to 5% and one of the ways to
do that is looking at our capital efficiency and our internal model.
So, currently, as you know, we've got two internal models. We've got approved legacy
Phoenix one, and we've got approved legacy Standard Life one. Now you can imagine the
Standard Life one is the Open business mostly with the workplace and custom savings
and investment within that Standard Life internal model and within the legacy Phoenix one,
you've got the primarily the Heritage business, which includes the BPA business.
At the moment what we do is really the sum of the parts, so we are not taking any benefit
because it's really just adding the two together. What we are hoping to do with our
internal model harmonization program is really offset those risks that are dominant in each
of those two different models.

Page 31 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

So for example, within the legacy Phoenix, you have longevity and credit given what we're
talking about in terms of BPA. But in the workplace you have persistency risk. And you
bring those two risk together, you get diversification and that is the benefit of having a
Heritage and an Open business.

FINAL

A - Andy Curran

{BIO 18816863 <GO>}

Thanks Rakesh. Mike, do you want to pick up the second question.

A - Mike Eakins

{BIO 21096986 <GO>}

Thanks, Andy. And the question was around the -- our use of partnerships and the fact
that we're expanding our expertise in-house. Well, look, in response to that, ASI our
absolute core strategic asset manager. And we do a number of great things with them.
Well, and we've got a real structural advantage because we can partner with
organizations like ASI but also we can go anywhere else in the world and partner with
other asset management -- managers to tap into their expertise and that's particularly
important when we are focused on liquid assets, it's also critically important what we want
to be best-in-class in terms of sustainability.
So using -- partnering with asset managers will absolutely be the core, but what I would
say is and I referenced this in my presentation, we will build out our liquid asset origination
by doing so directly and having relationships directly with borrowers, but that will really
augment the liquid asset origination that we do with our asset management partners.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks, Mike. So just to be clear, we will do some -- direct liquid asset origination, there's
no plans for any direct Asset Management beyond that consideration. Jess, do we have.
Next question please.

Operator
Yes certainly, so the next question comes from the line of Greg Patterson from KBW.
Please go ahead.

Q - Greg Patterson

{BIO 21641359 <GO>}

Good afternoon, gentlemen, can you hear me. Ladies and gentlemen.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Yes we can. Greg, how are you? Good afternoon.

Q - Greg Patterson

{BIO 21641359 <GO>}

Good. Surviving out (inaudible) as well and so. I'll do the traditional 3 questions, the first
one is, you talk about GBP440 billion of the UK opportunity. I would like you to explicitly
name the top 5 companies that contribute to that GBP440 billion please. The second
thing is on workplace pensions.
Page 32 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

In terms of the third, discreet third quarter, ignoring the business element. I wonder if you
could update us on what the inflow item was and the upflow item. Just trying to get a
sense of the COVID-19 headwind on workplace pensions net flows ex to business. And
the third one, just in terms of the presentation.
Is it fair to say this is the first time that you explicitly dropping your M&A criteria that the
price of a deal had to be below own funds. I note the examples cited in Slide 75 about old
mutual wealth. So I just want to know if you formally dropping that criteria. Thank you.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks, Greg. So we have Andy Curran with us in lockdown in Tier 4 in Glasgow. They
don't let him out. So I'll get him to take the second question in a moment. I'll get. I wasn't
aware we had a criteria that says the M&A would be below own funds, but I'll get Rakesh
to answer that one, because he will have the history of what we've said historically
probably better than I do. And let me answer the first one in terms of GBP440 billion
opportunity. So what we covered in our slides today was to say that kind of roughly half of
that opportunity is books of business over about GBP50 billion and roughly half of it is
below GBP50 billion. I can judgment in working this out is what basically looking at with
profit books of business and we're looking at things like unit linked bonds or old legacy
personal pensions what with aren't actively marketed for new business aren't open for
new business coming into them.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm not going to name specific competitors here, Greg but that's that kind of criteria that
leads us to come up with the GBP440 billion as a whole and is a combination of some
larger ones, and a lot of smaller books as well.
Andy, do you want to pick up the workplace question please.

A - Andy Curran

{BIO 18816863 <GO>}

Yes, of course, I think I heard the question correctly. We currently Greg have -- we have
around 11% market share of the workplace market at the moment and we expect that to
grow as I said in the -- in my presentation from basically -- we expect the market to grow
from about GBP400 million to over GBP1 trillion over the next 10 years, really important
dynamic going on in the market, which is that transfer from an own trust master trust,
which I think is really, really important. If your question is underlined by a question about
how deserve long-term cash generation here with it. Last year's numbers were slightly
inflated through the change in contribution rates, significant change in contribution rate for
ultra low schemes, whether the base level went up from 5% to 3%. This year we expect
to have another solid year in the workplace. But as I said in the presentation, very, very
bullish about the proposition going forward. A whole series of interesting developments
in our place -- market and we feel really, really positive about it going forward. Andy that
was the best you could do. So I couldn't quite hear the question

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

So the other point that Greg was asking is, what impact is COVID had on the flows in our
workplace pensions book?
Page 33 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

A - Andy Curran

{BIO 18816863 <GO>}

Yeah. Not very high, around at the moment from what we've seen is (inaudible) have
dropped by about 7%

FINAL

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

And that's probably pretty much a market wide impact, basically the impact, a
combination of some level of unemployment, but also a lot of schemes where people
have gone on to furlough. Although the -- in furlough, the furlough will cover the auto
enrolment contribution, it only covers the minimum 8% level. So schemes are paying at a
higher level than that. We've seen the level come down. So the net effect is about 7%
impact. So financially on us pretty insignificant. Rakesh, M&A criteria?

A - Rakesh Thakrar

{BIO 20549114 <GO>}

The M&A criteria. Just a reminder. So the M&A criteria that we have. So one has to be the
strategic fit to the rest of the Group. Second is value accretion. Third is investment-grade
rating, maintaining the investment grade rating. And fourth is maintaining our stable and
sustainable dividend. Now Greg, as I understand your question was around value
accretion. Now usually when we look at value accretion, one measure is looking at the
discount to own funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

But what I highlighted today in my presentation is the way we actually look at M&A
internally and then look at the output of that and see what does that mean in terms of the
percentage of own funds. So you would have seen that when we look at that calculation.
We look at the organic cash generation that the target will bring.
We will then look at the incremental cash generation from the synergies and management
actions will have on top of that and then using a discount rate that we -- the weighted
average cost of capital and the risk premium on top of that, which will define the
uncertainty and the return we want. We will then calculate the IRR, if it meets our hurdle
rates. We will then do it. And you saw from Andy Moss's presentation. An example of why
you could get a situation when you apply that scenario where with the Old Mutual Wealth
example, where although initially it was below -- above own funds in terms of the price
paid, by the time you did all those management actions and synergies and bringing it on
to your own platform and getting the benefit from a lower expense cost per policy, you
end up in a scenario where you actually having paid 76% of own funds.
So I'm not saying, we are dropping that own funds as a metric. What we keeping is value
accretion and there's a number of ways to look at that.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

And I guess another good example of that in practice has been the way that in the 3
months since half year, our solvency ratio has gone from 150% to 159%. So when we do
these M&A deals, we're able to move rapidly in terms of both cash generation and capital
synergies and hence improves our capital position. Jess, next question please.

Page 34 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good afternoon and thanks very much. On your UK M&A opportunities, can you give us an
idea of what your potential firepower is here without coming to the equity market. And
also what the competition is for that books, especially now that you've taken out your
base competitor. Second question is on the BPA environment and again on the
competitive landscape here. What is the situation and also, how rather discussions or the
consultation process with the regulatory going on potential changes to risk margin and the
matching adjustment, what could that mean to your new business strain or potential ability
to do more BPA in the future.
And then finally from the -- this new long-term free cash generation, I assume it's in
undiscounted basis. But I think you've given at the end of 2019 but surely at third quarter
2020 stage is GBP14.1 billion is maybe GBP1 billion higher already due to the cash
generation throughout this year. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks so much, Stephen. So I'm going to ask Andy Curran at the moment to talk
about the BPA environment, but I'll ask Rakesh to pick up the -- you managed to get five
questions and I think this is good effort, Steve and very impressive to pick up the
regulatory risk margin elements of that. Rakesh will also pick up the long-term free cash
generation point. On the UK M&A, I'll ask Rakesh to talk about the firepower we have. I'll
just quickly touch on the competition point. So I mean it is fair to say that the previously
the two main players and this would have been Phoenix and ReAssure and obviously, now
we've combined together, but there is a lot of private equity interest in the UK insurance
market at the moment.
Generally that focus will probably be at the smaller end rather than the larger end, so I'd
expect the smaller end would be relatively competitive that the larger end of deals, I think
we feel like we're pretty well placed. And I really would emphasize the things we talked
about in the presentation. The kind of strength of our credibility as a partner, our track
record of doing deals, access to funding, our strong track record of doing Part VII, it does
make us a very attractive counterparty for people within this. Rakesh, do you want to pick
up the five fire power points, the regulatory risk margin type environment of the longterm free cash, and then I'll come to Andy for the BPA competitive landscape.

A - Rakesh Thakrar

{BIO 20549114 <GO>}

Yes, so let me pick up the fire power. So I think, in one of the slides Steven, you would
have seen that, how much cash we will have at the end of 2023. And that was 1.8 billion.
Now when you are looking at the context of any M&A, you've got to look at what the
target is, what the target's leverage ratio is, what is Solvency II surpluses, based on what
we think will happen over the next 6, 12 months our fire power, assuming it's in line with
our expectations. We could have up to GBP1 billion, GBP1.5 billion to spend on on an
acquisition. But as I said, it depends on the target and the characteristics, based on the
Page 35 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

Solvency II surplus. The ratio and its leverage ratio. So then moving on to the risk margin
landscape. So clearly, we're onset of Brexit and we really welcome the treasuries call for
evidence on Solvency II and the framework. Now we don't expect any changes
immediately. This will take time, but certainly, as many of us in the industry will be saying,
the risk margin is currently at 6% and it's high relative to our interest rates today, and the
fact that it has a double impact also on your SCR when you get that movement in interest
rates.
So certainly, what we would be looking for is potential reduction in the risk margin, which
will then help the industry and also help the BPA market because it means though that
new business would mean the capital cost of that would be that much lower. And then,
Steven. Just on that final question about the long-term free cash. Yes, absolutely, you're
right. It is undiscounted and I think the point you were making is that when there is a cash
generation should that GBP14 billion number that we indicated at the start of this year. The
GBP14.1 billion. Would that go up? And the reason it doesn't. The answer is it doesn't go
up. And the reason is because what we've got in that calculation is that GBP19 billion of
cash and we've got the holding company cash as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

So really what's happening is you just got a transfer of cash from that GBP19 billion to the
holding company Group cash. So overall, there should be no change. The drivers of that
long-term cash will be when we write new business or when we deliver -- over deliver on
management actions and create value accretive management actions. That's not in the
original GBP19 billion.
And the uses of that as I said in my presentation will be the debt interest, the dividends,
the group expenses et cetera.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks Rakesh. So while he is taking a look at it, is that there is a slide in Rakesh's deck,
which effectively shows all -- but it hasn't got numbers on the bars that's the slide we will
fill-in in our full year results in March. So it shows you the different components that might
move. Andy, I think, you probably didn't hear the last question, particularly well there in
Glasgow but Stephen's question was basically in terms of the BPA environment, what was
the competitive environment -- like around the BPA markets at the moment?

A - Andy Curran

{BIO 18816863 <GO>}

Yeah, I think it's healthy, Steven. We expect the market demand to remain strong. We
assess around about GBP2 trillion of liabilities, about GBP1.2 trillion of which are ready for
buyout or buy in. So feeling pretty positive about the market and the prospects of the
market.
As I mentioned, we are looking to allocate about GBP150 million to GBP200 million of
surplus capital per annum in this market. We will always look at value not volume. So, this
will not be a market share gain for us and will always be selective and proportionate. But
overall, our sense is that this market has many years to go before there would be any
significant contraction over the margin.

Page 36 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks, Andy.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks, Steven. Jess, next question please.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Louise Miles from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.

Q - Louise Miles

{BIO 20765435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi everyone. Hope, you are all doing well. Three questions from me as well please. So my
first one is on the bulk. So I think you previously said that you won't have about 10% of
your asset under management in annuities, and it looks like from one of the slides, you
are aiming to write about GBP3 billion of bulk per year, and that looks like it's more than
the (inaudible) current annuity book if you see the annuity books running off at 6%.
So I'm curious, did that 10% to get still relevant and I know you said that you don't want
annuity to become too dominant part of your business mix, but can you help us to kind of
quantify the optimum proportion of annuities within the book, this is first question.
And then on the same topic, looking at your Solvency II sensitivities, should we expect the
credit migration and credit spread sensitivities to change as you increase your exposure
to annuities on credit risk. And then finally, my final question is on one of the slide, you
said that e [ph] ratio of 50% to 60% of the longevity risk to expel counterparties. Can you
give us a bit of an overview of how this is across the new business arising and on the back
book.
And then on Slide 72, it shows that one of the management actions you're going to do is
the longevity reinsurance and does that mean you're going to -- your intend is to increase
the percentage of longevity reinsurance across the entire book. Thank you.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks so much, Louise. Yeah, we are all doing very good here. And socially distance with
all. But -- so I'm going to ask Rakesh to answer the second question on the credit
sensitivities. I'll ask Andy Moss to pick up the third question on reinsurance of longevity
and management actions around reinsurance.
In terms of the first one, I mean, yeah, so I have said, I've talked about the fact that
annuities got 38 billion of annuities circa 10% of our total balance sheet and we don't want
Page 37 of 43



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

to become overly dependent on annuities, what really matters is actually the proportion
of credit risk as a proportion of our total risk in the SCR. And one of Rakesh's slides talked
about that being 19%. So that is significantly less than a lot of our major competitors, and I
think it's fine if that goes up a bit, because it's still a relatively small proportion of the
balance sheet. We just wouldn't want it to end up being a much, much larger proportion in
that. Broadly the kind of flows here is the 38 billion of in-force annuities will go down by
the circa 6% a year and then, so well that's kind of about 2 billion off and then we're
adding 3 billion back on again. So you can kind of see that given our total assets thought
to grow as we grow our workplace business and investment returns on the portfolio as a
whole, you can see how we wouldn't expect annuities to move massively as a proportion
based on the selective and proportionate approach that we're taking. Rakesh, do you
want to pick up the -- how the sensitivities might move over time?

A - Rakesh Thakrar

{BIO 20549114 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, absolutely, Andy. So I mean, what you've seen in that sensitivity slide, which was
within Mike's section. Was that the credit sensitivities. And there were two that we
showed, credit spreads widening and also a 20% downgrade across our annuity portfolio.
Now, all other things being equal, you would expect if we writing more annuity business
and if the total proportion of credits go up, you would expect that sensitivity to increase,
but I would make 2 points on that.
One is, as you know, we are also looking at investing a lot of our credit from credit into
liquid assets, which Mike has already spoken about, which we're well aware of. And
second is Mike and his team actively manage this credit portfolio, they will do whatever it
takes to make sure any risk to that is minimized and the sensitivities, we actually disclose
do not allow for any management actions. It is a purely formulaic calculation that says if
the spreads widened by this much. This will be the impact, but we know in reality there is
action we can take to reduce that exposure.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks Rakesh. And Andy, our king of management actions over there. He has done this
GBP2.5 billion over the last 10 years with or without M&A, all good stuff, tell us a bit about
the reinsurance management actions.

A - Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

Thanks for that great introduction, Andy. So Louise, thanks for the question. So what we've
got on our slide though, as you quite rightly point out, we've got an action around looking
at our longevity ratio wins next year that will be related to the ratio book, which is at a
lower percentage than we have across the rest of our Phoenix book.
So we are absolutely planning to increase that ratio, obviously as we do that, we'll look at
the optimal levels balancing off that the risk and the value that we can get from those
reassurance deals.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Page 38 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Thanks, Andy. Jess, we go to our next question. But unconscious, we do have a hard stop
at 4:30, so I might ask if people could ask their two most important questions, we'll get
through more people's questions that way, if that's okay, Jess, who's next?

FINAL

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Trevor Moss from Agency Partners. Please go
ahead.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Hi Andy. My two questions then. Although, I'm afraid that they do overlap slightly with
other people, but you talk about your Open business and then wanting to build
complementary capabilities, which I totally get. What would you say are your top three
complementary capabilities that you would like to build, i.e. are they asset origination,
different product sets, what are your thought there. Things you'd like. The second thing is
relating to one of Steve's question actually. In terms of the competitive environment of
the deals, when are now used to be covering resolution back in the day, (inaudible) used
to say to me that it was always very helpful to have at least two bidders on the -- sitting
around the table because it gave the boards the comfort that they were getting the right
price for the deal and the right sort of deal. But having taken out ReAssure, the sort of
larger end, you haven't really got anyone competing with you even if you've got PA down
at the bottom end. So I mean, how do you address that do you think.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Trevor. So I mean I'll have a -- maybe ask Andy to comment more broadly
on capabilities, but if the question related to Open business was around what Open
business M&A might we think about, probably the way I'd look at it is to look at that
customer life saving cycle kind of diagram. We looked at. So for example, in the early life
stage, we said that the customer needs are saving -- starting to save to in accumulating
towards retirement typically done through workplace pensions is our top three player in
that market, we're well set, but the other need was around protecting their family income
and health and well-being.
So a Group Protection business might be attractive as a fit to their but also diversify well
with the rest of our group or potentially in the later life stage. One of the key needs was
how might people release equity from their property to meet their needs in retirement,
be that social care or higher level of retirement income. So that might be another
example, which again would also support the illiquid asset origination of the BPA business.
In terms of the -- in terms of looking at deals and the two bidders. I think where things
have moved down from back decade or so ago is there has been lots of these deals that
have happened in the market and that does then give a sense of what market pricing
might look like and so ultimately I think my view would be that the strategic desire to
offload the back book and refocus the group, any particular group on what it wants to do
going forward.
That they can calibrate value and pricing relative to other deals that have been done in
the market elsewhere, and therefore satisfy a board accordingly. And so on balance, my
Page 39 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

judgment will be it won't stop people from taking action on the larger books if that
strategically what they want to do. And the other part of Trevor's question, just reference,
what are some of the kind of capability builds that you're focused on in terms of the
Open business. I know you've got great capability already in the team, but you are
bringing more people in a number of areas yeah.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Yeah on capabilities, as Andy says, we already have decent [ph] capabilities you get to AR
already and be pretty successful so great capability, but we have a -- see the ambition as
we've discussed. And one of the things I found in my experience working in this market is
similar to Andy for well on 30 years now. Is that if you really understand the subtleties of
each of the markets really, really well and are able to join up those particular darts from
your Brexit to master trust to where the SEE [ph] are thinking about around your stronger
nudge for people who are looking for advice and guidance, all of that sort of thing, and
that sort of real depth of knowledge is really important to us and is something that we will
continue to build out on and I would just echo Andy's points about the adjacencies from a
business perspective.

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thanks, Andy. Thank you, Trevor, and Jess, next question please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Oliver Steel from Deutsche Bank. Please go
ahead.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Hi Andy, Hi everyone, I've just squeaked in it looks like. I'm going to keep it to 1 or 1.5
questions, which is, can you talk a little bit more about the assumptions within the 800
million of new cash being generated. And particularly the bulk annuity 5% strain figure. So
are you expecting to get from this 800 million figure as early as next year.
And secondly, on the bulk strain figure. Can you achieve that as early as next year or when
does the new internal model come through. And finally, does that 5% include a full 40%
allocation in new business to illiquids?

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Great. Oliver. Thank you. Nice to hear from you and Rakesh, do you want to pick those
ones out. Please.

A - Rakesh Thakrar

{BIO 20549114 <GO>}

Yeah, so let me start with the 800 million from our Open business. So you would have
seen from the analysis in order to offset the organic generation runoff, which in 2020 we
satisfy 800 million, we would need 800 million of new long-term cash generation. And
that long-term cash generation we believe will be done from a combination of getting
Page 40 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

FINAL

that -- targeting that BPA strain from currently, the 8% to the 5% together with improving
our proposition on workplace and C&I to really get to the above that 800. That is going to
be something that we will look to do over the next short to medium term.
And then certainly is on Andy current agenda as is our agenda -- Andy and I agenda as
well. In terms of this -- the 5% strain, in order to get to that position as you saw in one of
Andy's slide, it's a combination of number of things. If today, we were at 8%. You've got
the capital efficiency. You've also got the investment in talent and capability and
proposition. The restructuring, the reinsurance and you've also got the investment in the
liquid assets and making sure we have the right assets to back those liabilities.
So it's a combination of all those three that will get us from the 8% to the 5%. And then I
think just finishing off on the internal model harmonization, this is something we are
absolutely working on. It's a complex program, is bringing two as I said approved internal
models together and we are the first in the industry to do it.
We're making sure it's absolutely right. And it's really recognizes the benefit of bringing
that Heritage and Open business together and we're hoping that application will go in Q1
and therefore allow us to use it later on in 2021 to really support Andy and his -- and Tom
Ground in that BPA space as well as the wider organization in delivering our strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

So I think, Oliver, I will just very quickly add. Well, so we're not putting time scales of when
we'll get to this 800 million long-term new business cash or indeed on when we'll get to
the BPA strain just because this is an active competitive market. And we will make
objective decisions about recycling our substantial excess cash, based on where it will be
value accretive, and therefore, if the market moves around, different things happen, we
will be disciplined.
We will put value over volume, which is why if we've got an integration we are doing. It's in
our control. So we can say, here is when we're going to do it by and we'll do it by then.
When it comes to Open businesses, you're in a competitive external market. We're not
going to commit targets and timeframes there because we want to be able to be free to
make the right commercial decisions in the best interest of shareholders over time.
And Jess, we probably got time for one final question, please.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Larissa van Deventer from Barclays. Please go
ahead.

Q - Larissa van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Just wanted to bode on the illiquid asset generation, my first
question is actually going to be by win. But I believe you just answered that. And the
second question is whether you are finding that there are sufficient deals that can meet
Page 41 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

your hurdle rates, or are you struggling to find deals that the focus returns in the market,
and at what rate do you see them coming available for investments?

A - Andy Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, thanks so much, Larissa. Mike, do you want to pick that one up.

A - Mike Eakins

Thanks for your question, Larissa. So, look, as it relates to the liquid asset origination. As
we said, we have very strict criteria over the investment criteria that we apply, and we
have many hurdle rates in terms of capital, in terms of pickup versus the assets that we
sell. And that's actually an important point just to focus on. When we invest in an illiquid
asset, we are selling an existing asset. And typically, we're selling corporate bonds, which
have an unsecured exposure, so we can sell a corporate bond invested in an illiquid asset,
get a spread pick up, get a greater security and a higher rating. Now in terms of your
question, in terms of deal flow, we're seeing significant deal flow. As I mentioned in my
slides, we saw several hundred deals shown to us over the course of Q3 2020. We only
allocate it to 12.5% of that, so it is really -- it's a numbers game in terms of making sure
that we see the deal flow and that's why we're building out our capabilities in a liquid
asset origination working in tandem with our asset management partners and building out
our ability to do it direct.

A - Andy Briggs

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 21096986 <GO>}

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Yeah, and I think it also feeds very strongly into our sustainability focus. So of the -- just
over 1.5 billion we've invested in liquid assets this year, half of that has been into ESG base
assets. So we not support that sustainability focus that we've got. That's all, so I am out of
time. But thanks very much everyone for joining us today. It's been great to have you with
us. For those of you on the sell-side, if you have any further questions, don't hesitate to
get in touch with Claire and team and they will be to handle those. And then for those on
the buy side, Rakesh and I are out on the virtual road next week, so from our living rooms
we will be -- we've got time put aside for buy side investor meeting, so if anyone wants to
follow up on anything, we'd be delighted to do so, but in the meantime. Thank you very
much for joining us here today and we'll catch up soon. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 42 of 43



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2020-12-03

Page 43 of 43

