Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Andreas Berger, Chief Executive Officer Corporate Solutions
Christian Mumenthaler, Group Chief Executive Officer
Guido Furer, Group Chief Investment Officer
John Dacey, Group Chief Financial Officer
Moses Ojeisekhoba, Chief Executive Officer Reinsurance
Thierry Leger, Chief Executive Officer Life Capital
Thomas Bohun, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie
Edward Morris
Emanuele Musio
Iain Pearce
Ivan Bokhmat
James Shuck

Bloomberg Transcript

Kamran Hossain
Michael Haid
Paris Hadjiantonis
Thomas Fossard
Vikram Gandhi
Vinit Malhotra

Presentation
Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Thomas and a warm welcome also from my side. Good morning.
Good afternoon. Good evening, depending on where you are all across the world. I hope
you're safe and healthy in this quite challenging times. So I'm looking forward to a slightly
different Investor Day. I hope everything will work fine today and that technology, I think
we get all used to that will work fine. I'll give an overview of where we are before handing
over to our Chief Financial Officer.
So first, what are the key messages for the day. So the first one is clearly that our balance
sheet is very strong and that we're well positioned for growth. We see positive rate of
momentum in P&C Re and targeted combined ratio, normalized combined ratio next year
of below or equal to 96% from what we can see at this stage.
Page 1 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

In life and health, we continue to focus on profitable growth, but at the same time put a
lot of effort in managing the enforce as you know in gap, this plays a very big role.
Corporate solutions is well on track to achieve the goals for next year in normalized
combined ratio of 98% or below. iptiQ continues to show very strong growth trajectory,
and so we now had this year a few data points for markets from similar ventures in the
insured tech space and so we see a market implied evaluation of about $2 billion.
If you see the investment portfolio is well-positioned in this current low rate environment.
And I'm thrilled that later on key to figure out Chief Investment Officer will have an
opportunity to show what they've done, I think their team is stellar and has navigated this
extremely well for the crisis this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're committed to our capital management priorities that I guess all of you know very
well. The first two of those are, one, to have a very strong balance sheet and two to pay
an equal or increasing dividend over time. And finally, obviously in times like that, there's a
lot of focus on the short-term, but rest assure that we continue to also think about the
long-term, we continue to have significant investments into the long-term and we believe
that to be successful long-term, it's going to be a mixture of being a risk taker which we
obviously are today, but also provider of some risk insights, a good partner to help other
people to take risk. And therefore we continue to invest significantly in all of those areas.
This is not the focus of today's presentation, but I'm going to talk to that a little bit later
on one slide.
So that's the key messages today and I guess the most natural start will be COVID-19,
which is on everybody's mind today. So what we see in terms of impact on the insurance
and reinsurance industry and what is response to that. So the first one, I think there's no
question is less capital around obviously Q2 was worse, Q3, Q4 you see some better
ratios probably due to financial markets getting back. But overall this year will leave its
mark on the capitalization level of the insurance and reinsurance industry. And in that
context for us it's really important to have this strong balance sheet, but also to reserve
appropriately for COVID-19 to be on the safe side.
Then we see the global protection gap for the increasing in this difficult times which plays
into the hand of our public private partnership solutions we have now for more than 10
years. That's the team that looks with -- off the government and see what can be done to
mitigate the risk at the governmental level. We see increasing re and insurance demand
with accelerated shift to digital channels, which helps us and is a reinforcement of our
strategy on the iptiQ side, our B2B2C digital white labeling platform and then obviously
unprecedented low interest rates, which we expect to stay there for longer, which means
there must be a total focus on underwriting margins, foremost on underwriting margins.
Obviously, the fact that we had a sale of reassure, it massively reduced our asset risk, it
means that we have a bit of space to re-risk and have a more balanced asset allocation
going forward also in the other business units. So that's a bit the situation overall and now
getting to the main drivers for the losses, for the insurance and reinsurance industry,
which I showed I think at the end of Q2. So here you have an update. The first driver is
here business closings in Europe. So they find their way in the insurance industry through
policy wordings in primary companies, in which case some of them are not being very
Page 2 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

clear, because it's clear the intent was never to cover something like that, but clearly we
see particularly in Europe, some unclear languages, which means that these losses go into
the primary level and then through some reinsurance treaties to the reinsurers.
So if you look at the underlying driver here, this is data from Oxford -- University of
Oxford. And then we worked a bit at the Swiss Re Institute. You can see the biggest
business closures and the strictest ones were in Q2. So this is where we expect the
majority of the losses to materialize. Q3 was quieter and you notice that we didn't
increase our reserves in Q3 and then Q4 now clearly more activities, again this is a cutoff
date of 9th of November, we see more closures, but we -- actually we don't believe, it's
going to get anywhere close to where it was in Q2 in terms of the actual closures, but
time will tell. Hopefully everybody has learned from the first wave and you can see that in
the detail, the restrictions are less strict.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the other driver for insurance and reinsurance losses are of the excess mortality,
for us mostly U.S. and England Wales. You can see here the light blue is England Wales,
excess mortality with a huge peak in Q2 and then some normalization, back to normal
levels. And then the U.S. already had these several waves. You're aware of Q2 was the
biggest one, but also in Q3 there is some losses which we have booked in our GAAP
accounts and Q4 is a question mark how high will that be.
As we get to Q4, obviously the underlying mortality expectation also goes up as you
enter normally the flu season at that time. So it's going to be interesting to see how much
of what we see now is going to be actual excess mortality. But clearly, I think, we would
expect some losses also in Q4 from the U.S. So these are the main drivers we can see,
hopefully to give you a little bit of insight into how we see things. And then, I go to the Q3
numbers in some details. This is a chart we showed at Q2 and so we updated it for Q3
and gives you a bit more insight into where we booked the additional reserves.
So you see the total of about $3 billion on the right side and you see the majority was
booked in Q2 and then Q1, Q3 also some bookings there. You go one to the left, you can
see the split between IBNR and paid and case reserves. I noticed there's a lot of attention
to that split and the analyst community. I'll just issue a health warning here that -- it
depends a bit how you define things. So I don't think you can just compare across
different peers and I'll come back to that in the individual buckets.
So, if I start on the left side, event cancellation, it's clear many events have been
cancelled. We have $681 million reserved. This is probably the one of the easiest part to
estimate. Then we have business interruption, the hardest part to estimate, we still have a
huge part in IBNR here, we haven't touched that in Q3. Credit and surety $175 million,
smaller pockets, mortality $667 million. I think here is important to notice that there's two
different ways you can define the COVID losses. You can -- on one hand, you could take
all the people who have died, who were explicitly written that it's due to COVID-19 and
that would be a smaller figure and -- but that's a definition you can take and some peers
have taken or as we have done, we assumed that deviations from base mortality negative
ones will probably also be due to COVID to underreporting of COVID cases. And
therefore, our figure here is the deviation from what we expected.

Page 3 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

Only the total will be the same, but this is more a definition of what felt into mortality
buckets here and obviously in our definition, you will then see a higher proportion of paid
and case reserves because we sort of go ground up, than if you just used the cases that
have -- that were explicitly clear, it's from COVID-19. And then you have other line $427
million, that's a mixture of casualty, other lines, marine engineering et cetera, very difficult
to estimate over there no or very little movement in Q3.
So that's a bit a composition of where we are today. I know there's a lot of interest to
know what does it mean going forward Q4, Q1 next year et cetera. As we have reported
for our SST ratio and SST ratio, we had to make an assumption for the next few quarters,
but in that and we haven't disclosed that because it's highly uncertain we don't we don't
know yet how many claims you're going to have in a next year, but this free billing here
represents clearly the majority of this ultimate loss.
So maybe one word around the future. So I cannot give you figures but maybe some
sense of how we see things and how it's going to be evaluated. So you can see here four
categories, you can see how much we invoked by Q3 of this year as event cancellation.

Bloomberg Transcript

The majority of the Q4 events was already booked in nine months -- of our nine months
figures in GAAP, which means that in Q4 we'll obviously look at the events for next year
and how much we have to take their. Corporate Solutions, Andreas Berger when he came
mid of 2020 decided to exit that business. So, there's limited exposure in corporate
solutions. Obviously, there's still some in reinsurance in next year.
And then in our ultimate assumption we have in our SST ratio, we assumed that a larger
sport event will go ahead, take place without spectators, which is what has happened this
year. So, I think we have a tense of the type of losses, we have to expect vis-a-vis the
policy limits.
This is interruption, this is quite complex because it has these three layers, right, you have
the underlying risk, so what is going to happen in terms of business interruption, then you
have to transfer to the primary industry and then you have to transfer to the reinsurance
industry and I guess the biggest factor here, especially the second bullet point is the one
we control most is to transfer then to the reinsurance industry, we have all of this since
about April, started to have all renewals including some exclusions for that, but this means
that the Europe which is a 1-1 renewal is not covered yet or still covered this year, so, the
biggest risk mitigant here is going to be the 1-1 renewal, we expect all or nearly all of
these contracts to be renewed with an exclusion.
So, this would sort of cut-off the losses at the level between primary and reinsurance. But
obviously, our own clients also doing that work, they don't have 1-1 renewals necessarily,
so it goes for all the year. So they have also worked on changing the wordings as they
renewal policies at the primary level, there's also some supplements that will be used up
by now. So this mitigant at all the different levels. So it's going to be a combination, I think
from lower lockdowns than in Q2, some policy wordings or some mitigation happening
between the businesses and the primary layer and then the mitigations we put in
reinsurance between the primary insurance and reinsurance.

Page 4 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

Mortality, I think very hard to predict entirely depends on the development across the
world but that we gave you the sensitivity of $200 million pre-tax losses for 100,000
excess debt in the U.S., which hopefully helps you through the quarter to estimate -- make
an estimate, your own estimate.
And then finally the highest uncertainty pocket, credit and surety and other lines, this is
very difficult to say because to certain extent, you could even argue it's not a COVID loss
it's -- these are losses that could materialize as a consequence of the economic
meltdown. That was a consequence of COVID. So, credit and surety very much depends
on economic factors and disability business in the past in other countries also saw the
impact from economic crisis, but how much this will be the case this time is very hard to
say at this point in time.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, this is more risks to flag and it will all depend on economic factors, vaccine
deployments et cetera, et cetera. So, hopefully while this is not fixed figures that will have
to be reviewed anyway, this gives you a bit of a sense of the underlying risks and where
they're going.
So with that, I close with the topic of COVID-19 and I come to the different businesses we
have and how I see them at this stage. So the disposal or the sale of ReAssure to Phoenix
obviously was a good point in time to rethink how we want to operate as a group
because it was a big part of the life capital business unit. We had since 2012 created very
separately business units with separate legal entities et cetera, so a system that is quite
separate that allows entrepreneurship in all of these business unit in view of this disposal,
we came to the conclusion as an Executive Board and together with the Board that we
should look at getting more synergies between those to be less extreme and having
them separate, so we can clearly start to see some benefits of these three business units
or businesses helping each other and trying to capture some synergies. So go closer to
what we call one Swiss Re approach.
And this one Swiss Re approach, we have clearly reinsurance in the center at the core
business, then we believe it makes sense to have a corporate solutions. In the past, goals
and corporate solutions were more to grow to become big, to have economies of scale,
ultimately maybe doing an acquisition, be a big player, I think this is unrealistic in the
current environment and also longer term with the situation that we're in. So corporate
solution is going to be much more specialized and focused and the main strategic assets
they bring to the group is they're very strong relation to clients, to the corporate world,
which otherwise we don't touch.
And we see more and more touch points between the different business units. So for
example, corporate solutions gave access through their long-term relationships to BMW,
Diner, et cetera for reinsurance solutions or the deal we have with IKEA, with iptiQ, also
came only because corporate solutions knew the people very well and there was a
trusted relationship.
So we see these three business units that we see more synergies between them and
that's the direction we're going to take. And all of that is going to be supported by what

Page 5 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

we call the foundation, the group foundation where we try to get some synergies. We
think certainly people are -- should be freely floating between these business units,
people are huge assets in a company like Swiss Re. And then in terms of strategic assets
there, I think, that's the same as in the past. We always stress risk knowledge, leadership
are extremely important and embodied by the Swiss Re Institute. And Thierry Leger will
talk to you later, then with this whole client access and imagery of clients, which is unique
including to the corporate world as I said and then the capital strengths. And what
synergies can we get there? You've heard about our efforts to minimize the number of
legal entities, put them together, get some synergies. This is not a -- it's not a big project,
but we have to publish that, but just as you understand the context of all of that. It's time
to get some synergies between these businesses.
So now, let me go quickly through these businesses and start obviously with reinsurance.
So reinsurance in my view has some four extremely strong competitive advantages. This
scale is just a very big competitive advantage. And as Moses will talk to you later, they
have done a great effort and that great success in scaling up the business without scaling
up the cost. And you'd just get significant benefits from doing that in the last few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

So scale is hugely important and then risk diversification, mathematically basically needs
that you need less capital for the same amount of risk. So you get some benefit if
somebody would have a certain return, your return on the capital will be higher, if you
have this kind of diversification which is very large in particular between P&C and life and
health.
And then you could say two softer factors, which are huge client access. Yes, of course,
we have brokers in all of that and that's perfectly fine, the clients choose that, about half
of the clients have brokers. But in all cases, although if there are brokers, we have more a
triangle relationship with clients, we know the clients, we know dozens, sometimes
hundreds of people at the client organizations. We're deeply embedded, there's a trust
relationship in this triangle, you can ask brokers and the clients and we see this as a huge
asset, also for solutions and for other things to be done, not just pure reinsurance
transactions.
And then we through the size and scale and everything, we can afford to have our own
risk knowledge, which in my view is a strong differentiator. So these four elements play a
big role in terms of competitive advantage and where Swiss Re is. In all of that as I
mentioned, the de-consolidation of ReAssure reduces the financial market risk of Swiss
Re very significantly and gives us also a bit of financial flexibility in terms of A, growing if
you need to grow a reinsurance, but also to rethink about rebalancing the asset side,
make it more comparable to some of its peers.
So within reinsurance, P&C, when discussing with analysts and these community investors,
I often get the sense that people say, okay, the market is not hard enough, it's not moving
enough, there's some impatience, it's not good. But actually if you look at the underlying
figures, I'm not sure everybody's aware of where it is, I think thanks to this enormous
scale and diversification. Actually, if you look at this year, the underlying business is really
good. So I'll show here on this chart, the normalized combined ratio, which is by now nine

Page 6 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

months between 96% and 97%. And then, the normalized return on equity, this is
obviously without COVID, but also looking at the ROI in a slightly normalized fashion.

FINAL

And you can see that the underlying will be about 16% ROE to-date with current -- in the
current rate environment, that's what we would have. So -- and I think that's not -- that
picture is not the same for -- if you're a smaller scale reinsurer, if you don't have life and
health, et cetera, et cetera. So this is -- part of this competitive advantage.
Now there is concern obviously on the ROI, the pressure that the reinvestment rate has
on the ROI is clear, that is going to create pressure on that. And therefore here on this
chart, I want to show, even the stress scenario, if the ROI was 100 basis points lower and
you can see, will still be within the range or vice-versa, we would have to decrease
combined ratio by 2.5 points to get back to the 16% we have.
And obviously, since this asset liability duration is about six years in P&C Re, this
reinvestment risk will only eat into the ROI over time about six years. So this is the period
over which you need to compensate with 2.5 points and I definitely think this is extremely
feasible. So I'm very optimistic about this picture and as I said -- as we said, what we
expect next year to be below 96% in terms of combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we think P&C in this environment, thanks also to scale, diversification et cetera can
actually live in the current environment. And the interest rate environment means, we just
need to push for further decreases in the combined ratio and higher underwriting
margins.
Life and health. Obviously, we have a good track record now since all the remediation
actions, we took a long while ago now. Even this year, we're just below 10% ROE,
excluding COVID at nine months. Obviously, it has to be said that enlighten us the
difference is pandemics are part of the risk profile. They thought about, they're in the risk
models, they are in the costing, so this is sort of the natural catastrophe for life and
health, if there's nothing to be ashamed of here to have some losses here this is paying
families to continue for what they have paid, so this is in my view a different quality
problem than what we have in P&C.
Obviously life and health is slightly stressed the next three years and there's very low
interest rate environment you might see -- you can see the R is very high, so the ROE is
under pressure, but we believe we can stay within this 10% to 12% range in the next few
years. You could also see that reinsurance has done a good job in terms of growing,
without growing the cost line, which means that in actually 2 points lower operational cost
ratio than they had in 2015. So this is a massive strengthening of the competitive position.
Corporate solutions, I tried to find a simple picture to explain a little bit the repositioning.
So we have two dimensions here. One is how many products you offer? On the right side
is extremely comprehensive. Left side will be very specialized. And then from bottom to
top, bottom will be capacity focused, we could say opportunistic, there is more the
excess layered business and on top is expertise focused, you could also say client centric,

Page 7 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

it's more the primary lead type activities, where you have a relation with the client which is
much stronger.
So in the past from pre-2012 to this period of '12 to '19, of course it moved very much to
the right, so much more comprehensive product offering. But also moving with the
creation of a platform, a primarily platform closer to the client. And the move now is
clearly to go back on the comprehensive offering to get back to just the lines we feel very
comfortable, we have a competitive advantage. So this is the whole portfolio pruning that
is taking place and this is where we want to be only if we have a competitive advantage or
obviously particular knowledge we have that allows us to operate, do we want to be in
that line? But the push towards the client is continued, right? This is very important.
And I think all the growth we see now going forward must come from this primary lead,
it's not just from opportunistic deals we can see in the market. And as I said, this is I guess
the strategic attraction, of course for the Swiss Re Group. So being close to these
customers, allowing the whole group Swiss Re access to these corporate clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, it's well on track, I repeated every time, but for me, it's a pleasure to continue
to repeat that. The portfolio pruning is on track as they have promised last year, the cost
savings are on track as they promised. They both more reinsurance to manage volatility,
price momentum is higher than we thought a year ago so 15% year-to-date nothing has
changed, you still see very strong momentum in the corporate world.
Probably also, I think in part because Swiss Re was quite early, but others followed six
months, nine months later. So there's still a lot of noise in the market, a little stress, a lot
of bad results of the frankly that need to be compensated over the next few years. So I
feel very comfortable about the development of this whole corporate market at this
stage.
You could also see some favorable parity development now. So we seem to be in a good
position in CorSo. If you look at these normalized combined ratio, and you can see nine
months 2020 at -- nearly at '98. The obvious question we will get is, okay, why don't we
lower the target for next year? And I guess, I answered already here, but still okay to ask
the questions and maybe get more information from our CFO.
But basically, this year, there's a lot of uncertainty around claims. There's a very low claims
activity, possibly because of COVID. We think it's due to COVID this normalization here is
without man-made, so there's some good luck in man-made. So that's one factor. And the
other factor is all the economic uncertainties next year in terms of also the credit and
surety businesses, what does it mean et cetera? So there is a few factors that make us a
little bit cautious here, but overall I would say, I'm very bullish about this business and
where it's going for the next few years.
Now coming to iptiQ. Our B2B2C digital insurance platform, we've talked about it every
year now, I guess it's more established. It continues a very nice growth trajectory. We now
have over 500,000 customers, 40 partners in five markets. So it's basically life and health
in iptiQ, its life and health in the U.S. and now we have also launched and have been
Page 8 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

worked on since two, three years on P&C insurance in Europe. So these are the three
main businesses we have. And we can clearly see how the interest throughout this year,
that is pushed towards more digital, people are more buying online. And so we see there
is a further encouragement for us to continue on this path.
As I said, we also saw some valuations this year, some IPOs of the biggest inter-tech
players. They have figures that are remarkably close to what you can see here. There's no
pure life and health player, they're also not B2B2C, they're mostly B2C directly. But you
can see here, the premiums will be over $300 million towards the end of the year, a
CAGR of 75% over the last four years. Again very similar to figures you can see in some of
these peers I would say. And then on the right side, you see the evaluations have been
really high in the IPOs, the listed peers five to seven times premium and then in terms of
the unlisted peers even a bigger range. So obviously you can make your own calculation.
And this is just making a trial on our side to estimate the value for this iptiQ franchise
which at this stage is $2 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I went through all the different businesses. Today's focus is a lot around, fixing things,
where are we now, what we need to do, I think that fits where we are now and what we
need to talk about. But I just want to have at least one slide to talk about talk about the
longer-term, because it's always the risk in situations like that to just focus on the
immediate and forget to invest for the long-term future and we're not doing that. We're
thinking a lot about the future, where we'll go, we see the purpose of Swiss Re to make
the world more resilient and there's obviously no lack of need for that kind of purpose in
today's world.
And we intend to do -- make the world more resilient by putting clients and partners at
the center, by offering them risk transfer solutions as all reinsurers do that's the classical
way we help them. But we see also ways to help them take risk as we did in the past
through risk insights and also more and more through partnering with them to take the
risk. And you can see some of these names so in terms of risk insights, tools we have
talked about for a long time like CatNet and Magnum, Life Guide et cetera. They're all
there to provide to help our clients basically take some risks. And on the left side, I think
you've seen a flurry of announcements through the last year or two, where we have
partnered up with some of these big corporates to help them take risk or together take
some risk or improve the value chain in the insurance.
So probably for our next Investor Day, so I just wanted to give you this glimpse into what
we're doing and put this in the context of a longer term value creation for Swiss Re. So my
last two slides around ESG, I think, you're all aware how this has become hugely important
that actually comes a lot from the investment community. I've been active in the field for
15 years. So I remember making speeches in 2004-2005 with very limited resonance to
be fair, but this has changed massively. And you're probably even more aware than I am
that in particular through pension funds, long-term investors, stakeholders endorse the
pressure of all of that has led to a complete change of thinking around some of these
factors, put a huge amount of pressure on businesses. Obviously, some businesses are
further ahead, but I can see now a lot of businesses who are probably on their own
wouldn't have moved, they're moving now rapidly or some of them are moving rapidly.

Page 9 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

So, there's a really huge movement in the whole corporate world around sustainability.
And so, we have a certain number of commitments, we have made something we always
strive to be at the forefront of things. On the operations, we have this net-zero
commitment by 2030, we actually buy certificates, carbon certificates since 2003. So in
that sense carbon neutral, but certificates are not probably the best way of doing things.
It's just there's some question marks around that is not ideal. So there's net-zero actually
means, we commit to pay the price to extract the CO2 from the atmosphere because
ultimately, there will be no other way to get to zero than to have a significant huge
industry around CO2 extraction from the atmosphere, otherwise, we'll never get to zero.
So, we estimate that it's going to be much more expensive than the certificates are right
now probably $100, $200 per tonne is more realistic over time. And that's an industry that
is not yet built. So net-zero and that's why 2030, we bet there will be possibilities to
offset it and we're going to pay for that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then indirectly through the influence we have both on the asset side and the
underwriting side, we have commitments net-zero on the underwriting side and asset
side by 2050. So there is everything we influence will be touched. So that on the asset
side, we have switched to ESG standards, but this goes much further, this goes into
looking at the footprint of the companies, we have invested in and going to net-zero for
the some of these companies. So these companies will have to get net-zero otherwise,
there won't be in portfolio or you need companies with some negative, if that's possible
contribution to have some -- which still have some emissions.
On the underwriting side, this is not -- this is a long-term pledge, but obviously we take
actions in between so you probably read around our efforts or our new policies starting
this year to exclude some players in the oil and gas industry who have the highest
intensity of CO2 they use per gallon of oil produced for example, so the biggest polluters
in the creation. So, we try to encourage those who have better processes and lower
emissions. And then two concrete examples that we have done recently so as far as we
know we're the first multinational company to announce a triple-digit real carbon levy
internally, it starts at $100 per tonne, but will go up to $200 per tonne by 2030.
That's because, we estimate that at 2030 that's about the price we'll have to pay for
extraction from the atmosphere of CO2. So this is going to be for example charged for
flights, every flight will have this additional charge, so it's going to be embedded in a
system where managers make decisions whether to fly or not, these calls will be fully
embedded in their decisions.
And then a biodiversity big topic, I think a lot of people are aware that this is a huge
challenge, but it's also a huge challenge for making more visible, tangible and linkage to
the economy. So, we have put a lot of effort into this. We basically looked at the whole
world, this is geo-coded. So in the whole world through our CatNet as I mentioned
before, you can see at the different services that nature basically brings to you. So water
quality or pollination service as they call them or soil quality, you can see that in a 1
kilometer resolution across the world and then based on those, we're able to make some
correlations to the economic side and we were able to create some indices in countries
and make some linkage so that you can have a reasonable dialogue with governments or
Page 10 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

the companies around the risk, that is in the biodiversity and the loss of biodiversity and
these losses can be huge.

FINAL

So, hopefully this gives you a sense of what we're doing in this very important topic of
ESG, a lot of you show always a lot of interest. So it would be valuable to spend a little bit
time on this.
And with this, I'd like to hand over to my CFO, John Dacey, who will lead you more
through the capital side of things.

John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Basically about the capital generation and the strength of the balance sheet, a little bit of
a highlight on the Alternative Capital Partners team and the great work that they're doing
both in supporting our capital management, but also in supporting the growth of our
businesses across multiple dimensions and lastly some information, which might be useful
for some of our analysts on thinking about the future reporting for the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

On capital management I think we've managed the COVID crisis extraordinarily well in our
ability to maintain what is truly a industry-leading capital position and we're very proud of
that, but proud of that also to the degree that allows us to move forward to grow and
what are some very interesting market conditions that both Moses and Andreas will speak
about this afternoon. But maybe a little bit of history.
Let's go back five years and talk about where our SST has come from and remains. The
SST that we reported at the 1st of July is a rate of 223, that's above our target of 2020
and I just would reiterate that 220 is a target, it's not a limit, we will see in a moment that
we've done a nice glide path down to that target as we've continued to be able to build
some important parts of our business. But on this slide, I'd like to point out a couple of
things. First is the economic earnings over this period, what's in the pillar number one
here.
Over $12 billion in this period in-spite of the very difficult years we've had with natural
catastrophes, some adjustments to our reserving and most recently here in 2020, the
COVID losses. And I just reiterate the positions that Christian mentioned in the SST
calculation that we have as of July 1st, we've included not only the COVID losses booked
in the first half of the year the $2.5 billion, but also projection that we've made internally
for what we think this is going to cost us into 2021.
The second thing is while we've repaid -- created more capital, a lot of that repatriation
was done in the earlier years with share buybacks, the reality is, our actual economic
earnings have been more than 130% of the dividends that we've paid. And when I talk
about our capital objectives, you'll see that that dividend coverage by economic earnings
remains absolutely critical for us and we are very comfortable with where we stand on it.
Lastly, as Christian said in the context of the ReAssure sale, we've done two things, one is
we've been able to free up a material capital need overall and then specifically in the
Page 11 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

finance portfolio that we have on investments. I'll also give you some more details of that
in a moment, but that's been able then to bring down the required capital. I'd say that as
we continue to own a significant portion of Phoenix Group shares, we're frankly very
pleased with the performance of those shares this year since we have had them since
July. Over time, we'll see how big of a shareholding will like to own in the future, but for
now, we've got the shares on our balance sheet and they are part of this risk calculation.
Again a historical view the capital generation we've been able then to see some very
strong dividends from our subsidiary businesses up to the group. And the main part of
this chart what you see is reinsurance over the years, especially in the early years before
we saw the large increase in that kind of losses sent over $2.5 billion per year up to the
group in their dividends. We also received a substantial dividends from Life Capital and
yes, those will not be there in the future, but I think we expect our friends in corporate
solutions as that business comes back on track to become a more material part of the
dividend policy as well as our ability for the reinsurance business Life and Health and P&C
to maintain a strong contribution as we go forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the right side of this page, some information if we've not disclosed previously, but I
just thought it was important after the third quarter results to reiterate. We did get a
dividend up on the sale of ReAssure from the Life Capital segment of $1.5 billion. But
that's on top of an existing free liquidity at the group level of $2.7 billion. So we've got a
total today or as of nine months and nothing bad has happened to it, a $4.1 billion of
liquidity available at the group level, which not incidentally is at least twice times, what the
dividend we paid this year for the -- for group out to our shareholders.
I mentioned the glide path of our SST ratio. I reiterate that we've brought this down,
we've told you back in 2016, '17, '18 though the position of the group's capital seemed
overly strong to us and that we would bring it down. A combination of share buybacks,
which we executed over this period and the increase of the ordinary dividend has allowed
us to come closer to our target.
We're very comfortable with where we are at the moment, I will also observe that the
MVM, identified in the bubbles at the bottom have increased materially since 2019, this is
largely due to the reduction of interest rates in the last nine months, in particular, we've
been able to manage through that and maintain this very strong SST ratio.
If I want to focus on what's happened in the last nine months, we started out with an
available SST capital of $42 billion at the beginning of the year and the required economic
target capital of $18 billion.
I've mentioned the reassurance sale, which is reduced that required target. The series of
items, especially, the losses that we've endured on COVID itself, the payment of the
dividend was already in there, so that's not a reduction here have brought us over to a
reduced available capital, but also materially reduced required capital.
The other piece I'd mention here on the capital repatriation and might be surprised that
we've only got a 0.1 negative amount here. The calculation of that is a combination of the
Page 12 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

abrogation of the second tranche of the share buyback, which is offsetting the reserving
that we've already done for 50% of the dividend paid this year in anticipation of 2021.

FINAL

So as of July 1, we've already on a pro-forma basis booked 50% of at least that figure.
We'll see again the dividends decisions is -- will remain in the hands of our Board of
Directors and then ultimately the shareholders but for now, in this calculation, 50% of that
dividend is already been accrued.
Overall, the capital structure of the group remains conservative. The leverage ratio we've
got is stable at 25%, that's the light blue line on the left side of this chart. We've been
able to reduce our letters of credits utilized in life and health, is one of the reasons for
that. We've also been able to take out the debt associated with the ReAssure business.
At the same time, during the course of 2020, we were able to access the market of what
we think are very interesting rates. We did earlier subordinated instrument of EUR800
million and we've also accessed the Singapore dollar market later in the year with another
SGD350 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think our funding capacity remains robust, the market is very interested in supporting us
in any debt issues that we might have but right now again, we're very comfortable with
the capital structure. I know the big blue bubble in the middle I talk about this often, we
continue to have $2.7 billion of contingent capital available to us, it's not part of the SST
calculations, but there's no requirements for us to be able to draw this down, should we
see an appropriate need and utilization of it.
With that flexibility, I'd like to talk for -- give a little bit into the Alternative Capital Partners
whose growth has provided additional flexibility for our capital structures. First, just remind
you a little bit of the history Swiss Re Group has been active in the Alternative Capital
market for more than 20 years. We were arranger in the structure of the first cat on in
1997 and we were a principal investor.
On this chart, we talked about two pieces that would continue in our book. In the first
case, we have an inventory for a portfolio of securities in the ILS marketplace, that's
grown during the course of this year as we've seen some interesting price opportunities
for us up to about $1 billion, maybe even a little above $1 billion at mid-year of 2020. Most
of these are tradable securities 70%. We do this business, in the first case where it's
positive economic return, but this likely structuring on the right side of this chart also
provides the opportunity for us to gain market insights. We pay a lot of attention to the
Chinese, whilst we have to pay attention to but we're able as a group to be much better
informed about the dynamics of the market especially around the U.S. natural catastrophe
market.
In terms of ILS structuring and book running, again we continue to be a major player in this
space. I'd note for example that in October we did a big placement for the California
Earthquake Authority, I think about $775 million. Again, the total for the year at the first half
was up to almost $9 billion of structuring and placements. So this is a core activity that the
group of ACP continues on and is actually as you see growing.

Page 13 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

In addition to these, we've got an ability, that's increased materially for our own
management of risk within the group. And so what you see here is between 2018 and
2020, a significant increase both in our sidecar platform, but also the issuance of our own
cat bonds to help support the growth -- the profitable growth that we've seen on the
NetCat side of Swiss Re Group. This is largely for the reinsurance P&C teams, but I think
what you see on the right side is the shortfall relief from the North American Hurricane,
which is the main focus of this team to-date has been material is approaching $3 billion.
In the middle of this we talk about the development work that the team is doing to look to
even expand the risk sharing platform. We've got the sidecar we've got some great
partners that have invested significant amounts in that sidecar. We are looking to see if
there might be some opportunities for more durable sourcing of capital to support these
activities for the Swiss Re Group in an extended partnership. So, over the next quarters, I
would hope to be able to explain that we've been able to find some -- in some of these
additional capabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last, when we talk about the capital structure, the ACP team again has been able to help
us think through the broader capital structure and the total capital relief that we've seen
has increased by 75% over these last few years up to close to $2.5 billion. So what's
required on the SST basis for what is a set of peak risks has been substantially adjusted
downward, thanks to the success of the retro activities of this team. And as I said, we
should expect that they'll continue to grow to support in a very symbiotic relationship with
our reinsurance team and potentially eventually with the CorSo team as well.
If I can then -- bring you back to the group. Christian mentioned in his comments, the
reduction of financial market risk related to the ReAssure transaction, here we give you
some additional and new figures to be very clear on that of what's happened, if you look
at the gray bar in the middle. When we think about the SST economic targeted capital on
a pre-diversification and post diversification, what you see is the change between the 1st
of January 2020 and the 1st of July 2020 adjusted for the ReAssure sale is a major
reduction in financial market risk of $2.3 billion and a credit risk of another $0.5 billion, the
color is a little tough to see here, but that's what the numbers are.
If you then go to the pie chart on the right side and look across the total shortfall by line of
business. What you see is financial market risk plus the credit and surety, plus other credit
added all together, totaled only 31% of the total shortfall risk that we're running in group.
Now in some ways, we're happy with the growth of the underwriting risk we've got in our
business, but I will say that this 31% is probably at a low end of any historical range that
we've had, it also frankly as of the 1st of July reflects some of the caution that we've had
given the market volatility in financial markets in the first half of 2020.
So I'm not suggesting that this is predictive of where the future is, we're likely to be more
balanced and the risk we take, but we do have considerable room when and if our asset
management team finds it appropriate to bring on additional risk which by the way will be
a nice balance to the insurance risk that we think we can continue to grow in the markets.

Page 14 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

An additional piece of information related to ReAssure is the structure of where the bits
of Life Capital are landing and a post ReAssure world. And the first case I mentioned the
Phoenix shares, they will be managed by our principal investment team, but however at
the group level.
In addition, the iptiQ business, which Christian talked about will also be a group item, we
expect to be able to provide you some adequate information to understand the dynamics
of that business, at least on a semester basis and we'll update you on iptiQ itself at the
full-year year results and certainly at six months on the first half of 2021.
In addition, there's a small business, Admin Re US which is in runoff, if you remember in
2012, the group sold the majority of Admin Re US to Jackson National. There was an
additional small sale, I think in 2017 to our JV of another piece, what we've got left is a
business in runoff that currently accrues about $150 million a year in premium. On average,
it's looking to have about $25 million of profits with shareholders' equity of about $700
million, those will be part of the group items, not broken out in any material way.

Bloomberg Transcript

And lastly, we've mentioned some quarters ago that elipsLife with the business related to
some of the activities that we've currently got in CorSo on the -- with the IHC acquisition
done four years ago will be contributed. The elipsLife portfolio is in the midst of a
repricing and restructuring two strong world but adjustments of some of its activities,
what we suggested here is in the near term, the earnings are probably going to be
modest, we simply put down zero four-year models for the near term, but over time, I
think you should expect the under CorSo's leadership, this will return to an interesting and
clearly profitable business.
And then on iptiQ, what we've given you for the first time is a clear sense on sort of near
to mid-term expectations of the new business strain for iptiQ which will be booked in
group items of about $200 million U.S. dollars. So as we continue to build that businesses,
as we continue to sell new policies and expand iptiQ, that will be a cost -- running cost. As
Christian mentioned, we've got different maturities of different parts of that business,
some will be breaking even sooner than others, but for the near term modeling that the
$200 million new business strain is an appropriate charge that you should expect in group
items.
Otherwise the rest of group items, which is the combination of the profits coming out of
the principal investment portfolio that costs that are amalgamated at the group level and
some licensing fees probably would bring you to somewhere close to zero for that piece.
So on balance, what you see here the earnings before tax is at minus 200, plus 25 is not a
bad starting point for estimating what group items might look like in the near future.
My last and final slide, two messages. I just want to reiterate, one is, our group financial
targets remain in place, 700 basis points over the risk-free for return on equity, 10%
economic net worth growth per share, you might -- we've heard people say that these
don't seem very aggressive given the ReAssure transaction, I hear that, but you'll
appreciate that in the context of working through the pandemic and actually missing these

Page 15 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

targets for the last couple of years, we'd rather have the ability to meet or beat these
targets in 2021 and move forward.
The other thing I would say with the target as we've announced that we are going to
moving from U.S. GAAP reporting to IFRS in 2024. We'll have to think about our targets in
the context of a new reporting GAAP as we go forward. But again, that's not a near-term
issue, that's going to be for 2024. Equally important on the right side of the capital
management priorities, these have not changed, but simply to reiterate the first priority is
to ensure superior capitalization, I think you should assume that we believe we're there
with the 223% SST ratio. Again anywhere around the target of 220% would be a superior
capitalization.
To grow the regular dividend where possible and if not at least sustain it, that's the
second priority. The third priority is to be sure that we're taking advantage of growth
opportunities in the marketplace where we think we can continue to build value. And then
finally, if we cannot put the capital that we have excess capital to work then we repatriate
further, that's been the basis for the share buybacks that we're doing up through last year.
I think what we see right now in the market opportunities both for corporate solutions and
for reinsurance you should expect us to be focused on certainly on priority one, priority
two, and priority three, we'll see what happens in terms of our ability to get the priority
four but it comes after the first three.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think that's my last slide. And with that, I'd like to be able to turn over to Guido.

Guido Furer
It's a big pleasure to talk about Asset Management as that last section of this morning
before we go to Q&A. No doubt, 2020 was a very special year and kept us, asset
manager clearly on the edges of our chairs. This unprecedented volatility, which goes in
both ways, up and down. That's all that makes sense to give you -- give a high-level
overview what happened in our portfolio, expressed by this 5 KPIs, starting with the return
on investment for the first nine months of this year of 3.4%, but this also coupled with the
very low impairment, you see, it's just $27 million for the full year.
Now it goes without saying we wouldn't have achieved those figure without very severe
action in the portfolio, it was portfolio restructuring, but it was also coupled with a very
dynamically managed overlay program, which led to another important outcome. If you
look at the number of fallen angel in our portfolio, it was less than 50% of what the
market experienced. Again fallen angel is an important constituents for insurance industry
because it's the break between investment grade versus non-investment grade.
We continue to serve on the ESG and again -- and coming back in a bit more detail later
on, we produce another outperformance this year. Ultimately, we have a running yield.
Yes, it's lower than last year. The two obvious reason are lower interest rate, the 10-year
U.S. treasury chopped by another 123 basis point in the first nine months of this year, but
also we exited certain sensitive sectors which also led to a slightly lower running yield.

Page 16 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

But if you look on the summary on this 5 KPIs, I think it's fair to say this is a high quality
portfolio, which again produced a stable return in very choppy, very difficult markets. This
was thanks to active portfolio action, but it's also thanks to an ESG implementation which
really works. We've used new technology this year and we work on a few other topics,
which I'm super happy to report over the next 15 minutes.
We discussed about the first nine months of this year, but I think it's fair to say we should
look at it as a long-term investor, that's why it's also good to have a long-term
perspective about some of the performance figure. We all familiar with the return on
investment and very happy to report back to the last five years, we could produce 3.6%
on an annual basis.
Now, that's an accounting figure and in all the debate what is the right measurement and
probably the total return on is a good one, that's why we took the analysis and looked
how much basically we produced in our performance compared to so-called risk free
portfolio. A risk-free portfolio in asset management context managing insurance asset is
probably you look at the duration of your liabilities and also look at which currencies those
liabilities are and take this as a risk-free benchmark.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now Swiss Re co-produced 1.9% per annum over those kind of risk free portfolios and
benchmarks. Now again, this is an annual figure, and it's the average of last five years. We
also compared it to our peers and very happy to say we are considerably above.
Now, how much risk we have taken for that outperformance? I think a very familiar figure
for the investment market is the sharp ratio. As we've measured this excess return of 1.9%
over its volatility and we derived this a sharp rate of 0.8. That means, we haven't
produced a lot of additional volatility that nevertheless could achieve a very solid basically
excess return.
These are two kind of KPIs which is hard it's worthwhile to put into context, one is an
accounting one and the other one is basically a total return but they're trusted for
different currencies but also adjusted for different duration in respect of our peers.
Now the question is how does this go forward and we had a few references by Christian
but also by John, yields will stay low, this is also our conviction, there is no way that we go
back to something which is normalized in the short-term.
That's why it's so important to understand how you're currently positioned in the market.
When we took the Liberty, we will show you the split of our fixed income portfolio. And
the nice thing is and you see this on this slide represented by the blue bar chart, most of
our fixed income is at the long end, that's almost 44% of our duration is placed into 10
plus year.
Now, if you couple this with the unrealized gain which you have in the fixed income again
for 30th of September this year, it could show $6.7 billion unrealized gain in exactly this
fixed income book. Now the logical question which I have and probably you as well when
those unrealized gain basically matures. And the very good news is we have to wait for
Page 17 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

many, many years, because 72% of those is in the long pockets. That means about 2/3
and even slightly more of the current unrealized gain given not much view in the next 10
plus year in respect of duration.
That means the reinvestment risk and now we know we have very low yields, that
reinvestment risk is considerably lower in our balance sheet compared to others. Again
this gives us a lot of comfort that we don't see a sharp drop on the investment side,
because that piece is very, very stable and will last for many additional years.
We also told how we can enrich kind of information to the market and we will next year
2021 onwards come up with the new figure which is called recurring income yield. Again,
this gives you a forward guidance, which is broader than the running yield, which we
expanding in respect of asset classes and again it should help you how the portfolio
basically will develop just from a sustainability point of view.
But let me move on and look at the current portfolio and we mentioned the point, yes, it's
a diversified portfolio, however, no doubt, we have a very high cash position. And this is
liquidity expressed in this $21 billion, this is cash and short-term investment. Now there are
two reasons why it has grown. One is clear, this was the de-risking which we have done,
end of last year we started in Q4, but continued of course in Q1.

Bloomberg Transcript

This also leads to the very low impairment figure. This was one reason for the high cash
position, but of course also the partial proceeds from the ReAssure transaction also
added to that time. I consider this as a strength in the current environment, because it
gives you a lot of opportunity and optionality, which got referred before by my colleagues.
Now how looks the quality. Again, we make the mentioning for unrealized gain in the
portfolio, but has the quality really deteriorated in the last nine months? The answer is no,
you still see 95% of our fixed income instruments are investment grade and this pretty
much unchanged. You see a very low portion to the below investment grade allocation of
just 3%. 2% is basically not traded, but we talk about cat bonds and also some of the
loans which don't have a rating, but quite often are investment-grade like. This remains a
very solid portfolio.
Now what else helped us in the past and I'm pretty sure this will also big supporting going
forward is ESG. We do it as a company, Christian has referred to in quite different context.
I can look at it from a pure investment point of view. And we're going to show you what
ESG means in an implemented way and Swiss Re has ESG implemented to 100% on the
asset side and as you know we were an early mover and clearly one which went furthest.
Now the portfolio which you see here is equity, this is the dark blue line and we also show
credit which is another very important asset class for Swiss Re in a five-year context and
you see both have produced on a cumulative basis outperformance.
Now, it's very clear, if you look at the picture. The biggest outperformance comes from
the most toughest time. In this very choppy market back in 2015, beginning of 2016 again
we'll talk about default of certain sovereigns, we had to sell off in China et cetera. But of
Page 18 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

course the other key example, which is much closer are the last nine months and you see
the sheer outperformance of ESG. That's why I can claim ESG is probably one of the
strongest risk mitigation factors and we have done this since already a while.
You can express it in sharp ratio, again you find a few interesting figures on this table. But
ultimately, it's not only a better risk adjusted portfolio, it let once more in outperformance.
This year, the first nine months, we could produce an outperformance of 1.1% in our equity
portfolio, thanks to ESG. And a similar effect of course, not to the same extent but the
similar factors on credit, it's a 20 basis point outperformance in an investment grade
portfolio, this is thanks to ESG.
Now, how should we go forward and be sure -- we don't rest on what we have achieved.
We want to share with you key initiatives, we will make sure that we continue the strong
performance on the asset side of Swiss Re. The build-up which has started in private
market will continue, we have built up a very high quality portfolio in the last few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I talk about our infrastructure portfolio, which we have started 2012,'13, we constantly
grew it to a very high quality aspect. We will continue that track because again, we have
preferred access to the market and we have established a unique network, which allow us
to really kind of capture the most interesting transaction in the private market space.
Geographic diversification, that's kind of a natural DNA for Swiss Re, we are truly global.
We have been global on the reinsurance side, we have been global on the asset side. I
personally believe that these trends, we have a footprint which goes across Europe. This
helps us to capture attractive investment opportunity in other parts of the market. We
clearly see very different market development, very different outlook, and we know some
of the markets look much more promising than in the past. This helps us to take part of
that. I think about high growth market, China is an important market for us, we have a
presence. This is just one example which clearly allows to capture some of the more
opportuned outlooks.
Swiss Re has started to work with so called semantic investment and semantics
investment means you have moved away from the asset allocation thinking of the asset
class thinking. We started with that a while back, infrastructure is a good example various
somehow asset class agnostic but we need to save on ESG and save implemented ESG
across the full portfolio this is true for all asset classes. And what we see which we
believed in and we were able to implement it in institutional portfolio like Swiss Re
successfully. There are the teams and again, we are now in the deep dives and preparing
for the next big waves. We clearly be focused on things where we believe we have
propriety insights. Swiss Re is one of the biggest life and health carrier global.
It's clear that we see things earlier than other investor. And again, we should be leveraged
also on the asset side. That's why one of the themes which we identify is healthcare, but
pursue also digital infrastructure. This was successful so far that we kind of picked longterm trends early on and try to implement institutional portfolio successfully. Technology,
yes, it's a big investment topic, but we know this is also a great tool, it enables our

Page 19 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

performance. We make heavy use of it, again it helps us to digest big data, but also see
trends much earlier which is important signal to make -- for making investment decision.
Let me show you an example, early this year, we developed so-called of course what we
expect else so-called COVID-19 Tracker and you see just kind of an excerpt that tuned in
area with the few, call it quadrants. And those quadrants shows you, it's quite some
fragmentation. It's fragmentation about the beyond the different areas. You see much
more reddish in the China, kind of APAC area, but also very different size of the quadrant
is backed up sector.
This was one of the tools which we developed, it help us to see not only the wave which
of course started in China, but also we saw where it arrives at which point in time. And this
was in February, this screenshot and you saw U.S. was pretty much green and of course,
we knew this is probably temporary because this wave, we saw going through the whole
globe. But also we saw which sector mostly suffered? This was a perfect management
information system, which we used to make decision, both in the underlying portfolio but
also how we structured the overlay, both in respect of timing but also in respect of
sectors.

Bloomberg Transcript

These are examples which we didn't have five years ago, and it's clearly an advancement
thanks to technology, but also do understand how you basically implement and how you
apply it to institutional investor context.
Now I can't leave you of course without an outlook, I think that's probably is expected.
Now the world it's not the easy that -- that's an obvious one uncertainty remains.
However, we believe there's some recovery on the way, it's a choppy recovery and we
still see considerable downside as well as upside risk.
However, it's a more balanced upside and downside risk aspect. This is clearly also thanks
to advantage that you have seen not only on the vaccine side, but also on the policy side.
Monetary and fiscal policy is bigger than ever and we talk about 10 times on the fiscal side
compared to '08, '09, which is another good example 10 times bigger. And also on the
monetary side, this will not disappear, all signals which we hear suggests this will stay. That
means this kind of backstop is probably a factor, which has been complemented by other
slight positive development.
Now what we will come to you focused on is the quality of the portfolio. Again, we want to
be a reliable investment portfolio provider, but also we want to make sure that we use
the sustainability and the power of the balance sheet. We know the differentiation is
always important, I'm convinced differentiation is becoming even more important in every
respect. It's not only geographically, it's clearly also the way how we approach things.
Now, how I go with this outlook. I start with a high quality portfolio. Again, it has been
shown this year in last nine months, but it has been shown in the last five years. I believe,
we are perfectly positioned for a more constructive outlook. We have a lot of optionality in
our portfolio. We have 21% cash in short-term investment, which is as liquid as it can be.

Page 20 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

This coupled with the constructive investment outlook, I believe, we can capture some of
the value drivers, which we have identified, value drivers, which are through differentiating
both the way how we position the portfolio, but basically also the tool which we apply. And
hopefully this seems, which have been worked in the past in respect of semantic
investment will continue to pave this part to the outperformance, which we could show in
the last few years.
With that, I would like to hand over to Thomas for the Q&A. Thank you very much.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

A - Thomas Bohun
The lines for the Q&A session, and we'll just have to wait a few seconds for that. Please
restrict yourselves to two questions. Looks like we have first question from Kamran
Hossain from RBC. Kamran, please go ahead. We're not yet hearing anything --

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Mr.Hossain, your line is open. You may ask your question.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, sorry about that. The -- yes, I have two questions for Christian. I guess in the last few
years, you're focused on divesting ratio of fixing also what is your number one priority at
the moment? You did mention fixing during your session, but what's your number one
priority there? And the second question I guess, thinking very long-term about iptiQ, it
definitely feels like there's a different pool of investors between insurance and what is
perceived to be tech. What's intention for it to be kind of crystallized value via some kind
of spin-off in the future, kind of realized that $2 billion or is this developing economic value
or earnings going forward? Thank you.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Kamran. Good question, so I think the absolute priority for me is on the
underwriting side and the fixing of the underwriting or get CorSo and P&C reinsurance
back in embedded territory. Clearly have been issues there, I feel extremely comfortable
about where they are, but that must be the number one attention. I personally think
CorSo is kind of surprise on the upside over the next few years. You can see the markets
going up higher than what we saw it, but you have to stay on top of that in a very
obsessed way.
So to me, that's really the number one and then you could say this is short-term, but for
me that's the next two to three years, that is super important. There's other parties, but

Page 21 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

to me, that's the main focus. iptiQ, yes, I think yet now it is in the phase, where you're
absolutely right, it could be a different profile and obviously, we sort of count on that, our
investors will have the patience and will understand that this will add to the economic
valuation and later to the gap of the Swiss Re group. So you obviously have the
investment phase, then I think the first thing that's going to happen it's going to create
economic value, so it's going to be accretive for SST, dividend, et cetera, that's going to
be first. And then over time, innovatively right? Even if I run it off, it will create some GAAP
profit.
So I think definitely, it's so large that at this point in time it will be crazy to give up on it. I
think, there's no -- I can't see any theoretical limits to what it can achieve, this is -basically, this all these brands out there, there's lot of clients who cannot invest hundreds
of millions in creating a digital platform. It might change in terms of strategy, but I think at
this point in time, it would not be attractive to even at $2 billion, right? To sell it or IPO it.
So to me, it's just having this long-term perspective and then step-by-step, certainly
convincing our investors that is a good thing. Also there's some growth in the portfolio
and becoming part of the group. I cannot exclude right that at some stage. We might
have co-investors in it or so, but that's at this stage. That's not the plan.

A - Thomas Bohun

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Kamran. Next, we have Vikram Gandhi from Societe Generale. Please go
ahead.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, everybody.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Kamran. Next we have Vikram Gandhi from Societe Generale. Please go
ahead.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, everybody. (inaudible) from Soc Gen. Got one question, the second
one on (inaudible) was answered. So, looking at Slide 22, it's really impressive to have $4.1
billion of central liquidity and it's great to note the reinsurance business has been
upstream into the group consistently. My question really is, if there is a risk that a part of
the central liquidity has to be down streamed in the reinsurance business to some extent
to support the growth in a hardening market, of course, there's some spare debt capacity
available, but I guess, you wouldn't want to leave it up beyond the point? So that's my
only question. Thank you.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So Vikram, hi, it's John Dacey. I think I'd suggest it's a fairly hypothetical question. Our view
is that we have the ability to support a strong growth in the reinsurance business both Life
& Health and P&C with the balance sheet of reinsurance today. And it strikes me it's
Page 22 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

unlikely that we would see a need to downstream. Now the exception to that of course
would be if there's some massive natural catastrophe that would occur in the next
quarters on top of COVID, we've always said that we have the capability to manage that
and then I go back to the $2.7 billion of contingent capital that we would have accessible
to us to be able to fund both the hypothetical losses that might occur with some
extraordinary event and continue to grow the business and what would be an even
hardening -- harder -- hard market for reinsurance. So, I think the view should be that this
capital is already at the group and a reverse flow into reinsurance strikes me, is highly
unlikely absent a major catastrophe.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Vikram. We have Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Hi, Andrew.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hello. Hi, there. Sorry to go back to this topic, which was I think John, you were trying to
skip over possibly which is the target ROE. It strikes me that group has gone through quite
a lot of introspection this year. You've obviously disposed to reassure. You decided to
more systematically use retro which is a form of leverage. You decided to more
systematically exploit synergies between the business units which should enhance group
ROE. You said you're happy with the absolute 10% to 12% ROE of your core divisions. And
yet we end up with this unambitious, unchanged target spread of ROE at group level. And
I get -- you're sort of saying well, yeah, but we haven't achieved it. But I still just want to
get some sense that you feel that when I put all those ingredients together there's no
reason why that target spread should have gone up, particularly because we need
compensation as shareholders for potential volatility and I'm not sure that is sufficient
compensation.
The second question linked to that. Christian, you have in previous Investor days I think
almost (inaudible) actually always referred to sort of the underlying efficiency/expense
drive, I can't remember the (inaudible) you use but you have a desire I think to keep the
ongoing expenses down or even full and reinvest some of those savings in technology,
but what's your thinking on that now? It still strikes me the group is quite overly complex,
you've got a lot of risk carriers in all the divisions. I just wonder if there's been any thought
of a more radical approach to further simplification?

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So Andrew, let me try your first question. I actually don't think I tried to gloss over it. I was
very specific in saying for the moment we're holding on to these. I would suggest that
those are targets which we refer to as over the cycle. So if you want to be ambitious and
suggest where we've been for the last three years, the (inaudible) for us in 2021 and 2022
to reach that over a recent cycle I think would be pretty high. What I think I can say is your
comments were all -- there's nothing I would disagree with your points on why we should
be more optimistic about the return capabilities of the group. I simply, would say in the
context of an ongoing pandemic where we've got enough balls in motion without
changing this target will be very, very pleased to significantly outperform it if the rate
environment and a normal loss load in 2021 comes our way. And in that case, I think we
can -- during the course of 2021 re-evaluate where we want to reset something for the
Page 23 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

next two years before we go to IFRS. But overall, I think you'll appreciate that our goal is
not necessarily to meet that target but to beat it. And that remains intact for us in 2021.

FINAL

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yeah, happy to take the cross the question, Andrew. I can see it with very good memory
this is many, many years, so the philosophy has been I think since 2012 or so to try to take
out 3% everywhere in terms of cost and then reinvest it somewhere else, which I think we
have done for several years. Then came a phase in particular where reinsurance and also
part of operations have actually cut it without reinvesting it, right? We still have
reinvestment which means the cut have been more significant and then obviously we
grew without adding too much resources. So all of that has really helped. I'm -- as you
might remember, right, I'm not a believer in this 10% or 15% cuts in one go. It's different if
you have to restructure cores or had an exit lines of business, it makes perfect sense. But
if you do it to an otherwise healthy organization, you get all these yo-yo effects, right? You
cut the long-term investments, you do lots of mistakes and then innovatively three, four
years later you add it back on and it's unsustainable.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I really believe and that's also what I think the gene [ph] people came to us in 2007,
that kind of philosophy they brought is just to do the hard work of identifying every year
something you can cut, right, and always work on that and the pressure hasn't -- hasn't
taken -- hasn't been taken off at all, right, and we continue with that. And these things
we're seeing here, I think they're all pieces that would help us to continue on that track
rather than having a big one-off. But you have to come up every year with these 3%, which
is a lot, you have also inflation of salaries and so on.
So, I said the -- we just try to think over a long period of time, what are elements we can
do, how can we further simplify. We now have Anette Bronder, who comes from Deutsche
Telekom as our COO. She definitely comes from different type of environment, has a lot
of experience in that and is helping us so that we can continue on this pathway. So, I think
that's what you should expect, right, trying to be sustainable, do the right thing and yet
have a higher and higher hopefully competitive advantage over time through scale.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you Andrew. We have James Shuck from Citi Group. Hi, James.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

So, couple of things from me. So when I'm looking at the SST sensitivities because the -since the ReAssure sale, I was expecting those to have come down a fair bit year-on-year.
If I look at the credit spread sensitivity, it's come down a bit from 8 points to 6 points for
50 bps increase. Interest rates has actually gone up quite significantly, that's presumably
because of the lower interest rate environment. Real estate has gone up. The hurricane
exposure, one in 200 years has gone up, it's 42.6. If I put all that together and then set
the SST ratio 2:3, we have a target level 220 and the floor of 200. It doesn't take much to
start hitting that floor. I'd just be interested to get some of your comments around how
you've managed that volatility and particularly in the context of any reassurance you'd give
over the dividend outlook?

Page 24 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Second question is around the capital deployed in P&C. So I think the $700 million
earmarked for growth, that's forward-looking on the SST, so it take us through the next
January and new period that -- in that 700, I think there's an increase for COVID reserving
as well. So (inaudible) even less. Last year, it was $800 million. Obviously, with the
hardening rate environment I'd be expecting to deploy more capital into net cap both on
the gross and net basis. So just intrigued to see any comments around the P&C Re
growth outlook into 2021 because it doesn't look like you're expecting to grow that much?
Thank you.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

James, so maybe on the second question, I can encourage you this afternoon to maybe
repeat the questions to Moses who can give you a little more color. What I can say is two
things. One, we do expect a strong growth into a hardening market place and we will find
the opportunities I think to deploy capital in the P&C Re as we go forward, and exactly
how much of that we're successful at will be included in the January 1 renewal numbers,
which will be the 1/1 2021 SST number, but we will not constrain that growth, if we think it's
value-creating for the group. We will manage the peak risk also with the continued
success of the ACP teams to be able to find partners to accept some of that.
I think on your first question on the sensitivities Re, yeah, I mean the financial market
activities as well as potential large liability events do have a significant influence in the SST.
It's one of the reasons why frankly we've struggled a little bit with the point estimate
we've got out there as a target of 220, when you correctly identify the things can bounce
around up and down. And so, over the period, I think as we've included a good chunk of
our potential dividend in 2021 as we've included the SST, the COVID losses that we
expect to come through next year, have we included material growth and risk, which is by
the way not necessarily the same as growth in premiums in some of these lines and
course so in particular, but also reinsurance where we think we're getting excess revenues
for the risk-taking. We're pretty comfortable. And never say never about fluctuations, but
we've said in the third quarter where there was still a lot of volatility we managed to stay
above 220. Not that that's a limit for us but that's just a fact, and if for some reasons
we're dropping below 220 as there's no cause for alarm, over time we wanted to come
back towards that target, but the reality is we're thinking about this as a bit of a range with
220 as a target part of that range.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, James. We have Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. Hi, Vinit, go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Thank you very much. Just, so one for -- one for Christian, one for John.
One is the -- the first one question will be, you mentioned about the pandemic exclusions,
which will kind of draw a line or just kind of that this never happens next year. I'm just
curious, how much is the pushback you're expecting or you think will be important from
government, from other stakeholders? I mean, can we really just say, hey, on 1st January,
we will wake up and no more losses, we close our eyes, and we just be allowed to live like
that. So I'm just curious, this is a more theoretical question, but have additionally any
thoughts on that?
Page 25 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Second question is for John, just on the ACP slide 26, 27, thanks for sharing all that. I
mean, I'm just curious, you did mention the benefits of market knowledge, but they seem
to be coming at a cost. So when I see slide 27 and I see a comment that your actions are
helping -- increasing permanency of third-party capital. I mean, how does Swiss Re's
whole reinsurance operation view these activities? I mean, you're just literally helping the
competition. I know you're not only people, but I think it's just I'm curious to understand if
there was any debate in the company on basically what's the reinsurance and how this
actually is net positive for the group? Thank you.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

So Vinit, let me obviously take the first one, right? So it would be totally against the
principles of insurability if you were forced to insure a burning house, right? The risk has
already materialised. So I have not seen any person in the whole market suggesting, we
should insure a risk that is already here. So I think there's total agreement in principle that
this has to be excluded and obviously our clients do the same at the front, right? Because
they had not foreseen this to be a key risk. They know this is something that shouldn't be
in their portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

The timing is not exactly the same. They obviously move thick and move quicker, but
maybe they're not finished by 11, but I don't see any pushback on that, the push back is
usually around the exact wording and what it means and do you start to exclude other
things with it, et cetera. So that's been the challenge in the detail, but I think from a
principles' perspective, there's no disagreement, no push back, and obviously, maybe
Moses can also give us (inaudible) on the front maybe in the Q&A session this afternoon.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

And then on the ACP slide. Thanks for the question because apparently, I wasn't clear in
my own description of what we were trying to explain here. In this light blue box, we're
not talking about the market, we're talking about Swiss Re Group's ambitions. And so, the
idea of increasing the permanency of capital as an addition to the levers that we have
today, the sidecar which works very well for us and for the investors and the cat bonds
which we had very little trouble placing at rates which work for us in support of the
reinsurance team's business, right? So none of this has been done at a loss for us.
We're looking for options ourselves for Swiss Re Group to have some more permanent
capital structure in place and we don't have that today, but we think supporting Swiss Re
business with something that is more permanent with a potential additional set of
investors would be in our interest. And so what we mean here is not that we're helping
our competition, we look to invest and build capabilities inside Swiss Re.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Vinit. We have Michael Haid from Commerzbank. Michael, go ahead.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon, and two questions. First, on the combined ratio
below 96% target for next year. You appear to be very happy with that and you achieved
Page 26 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

a return on equity of 16%, but just to be clear, as the low interest rate environment
progresses, is the combined ratio of say 96%, do you say below but let's say 96%, is that
sufficient or so did not go down further to a level of 92% or something like that? That's my
first question. Second question on elipsLife. You sounded like elipsLife is currently or thus
currently going through a kind of a restructuring maybe that (inaudible) of a growth and
repositioning. What exactly did go wrong if anything did go wrong and what do you
exactly do?

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So, on the combined ratio, I think you're probably referring to Slide 11 that Christian used,
where we said that 96% with the current investment return is a plus or minus 16%. And our
view is and you'll hear from Moses is that trying to predict next year's normalised ratio
today before we finalise the 1/1 renewals is a little challenging, but everything we see in
the market says that we should be able to get to a point where 96% is achievable. I'd
encourage you to know that and I can say that as a CFO, not the head of the unit, that
both for ReAssure and for corporate solutions we say less than or equal to the expected
numbers.
And so, if we find ourselves in a situation where the market rates actually allow us to
come in better that will be great and we'll update you in February. But for now as Christian
said, what we see in the market allows us to be fairly comfortable that we're on target to
get to or below 96% and yes, if interest rates continue to remain low for longer, the kind
of positive momentum we've had in reinsurance combined ratio over the last three years,
we would expect to continue. What we do see is in the primary market, especially for the
commercial rates which make up the bulk of our reinsurance activities outside of nat cat, a
continued very strong price improvement and the fact that the primary companies
including CorSo are able to capture that, means that their ability to afford reinsurance at
price levels which will improve reinsurance's combined ratio should continue beyond this
1/1 renewal.
So we're optimistic for the near-term, we're also frankly optimistic for the mid-term, it
won't last forever, but the momentum continues to be very strong.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Maybe I'd just add to that, you know, don't forget that in GAAP premiums is earned over
two years, two and a half years or so. So that means the combined ratio that's going to
be booked in GAAP next year is half of that comes from the business we have already
written this year and only half comes from the business that we will write next year. So that
gives a bit of a time delay of recognition, but I think it's fair to say, what I said is if interest
rates remain as low and you have a gradual lowering of the ROI of one point, you need to
get 2.5 points to compensate for that and I think the environment I'm seeing it's
technically possible, it's a high likelihood.
So elipsLife, I think there's two elements there. One is low interest rates create stress in
particular in Switzerland with some products. So there's a bit of restructuring happening
there, but the other one which is very big is that, it was part of the growth push, so within
Life Capital both iptiQ, elipsLife were in the high growth trajectory, which means you have
Page 27 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

some profitable operations, but then you start in different countries other operations. As
we did the strategic review when you compare the two, we can see that iptiQ has a
higher strategic importance because the scalability is much higher. And elipsLife you can
scale but it's most scaling with number of people you have and the broker contacts you
have, et cetera. So we felt there's a different -- difference going forward, we -- iptiQ is
really at the center of the strategy, something we need to develop very quickly. In
elipsLife, we think that it's more important to -- instead of continuing to invest and have
this very high combined ratio, it's better to focus on the profitability, have less growth,
less scale and then deal with this Swiss problem. So I think this is a combination of these
two things and that's what's going to happen within the course of umbrella. Hopefully, that
explains it.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Michael. We have Thomas Fossard from HSBC. Go ahead, Thomas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

First one will be on the pricing outlook. Think that in the past you mentioned that 6%
pricing was equal to zero on an economic profit basis. So I was more interested to
understand what was your thinking regarding the upcoming renewals, and if you were
shooting for something about 6% at the original level? And also connected to that, I think
that clearly. you're the market leader with (inaudible) at the present time. So you've got
the real capacity to lead the market, the two of you to get your reinsurance capacity being
repriced to adequate level, and maybe this year is the one time opportunity to get that.
So can I ask where Q3 is going to put yourself in between I would say pricing and growth,
is it going to be a mixture of both or are you going to (inaudible) growth? Just want to
understand how the market is likely to shape up in the next 6 to 9 months?
And the second question would be for Guido. On the 2.4% running yield, can you give us a
bit also of a view of how we should think about the attrition of this running yield, it just has
a lot of cash assets probably yielding negative rates at the present time. So should we
expect as for your peers something which is around 15 to 20 bps attritional -- attrition per
annum or is it going to be medium in the short-term? Any guidance would be interesting.
Thank you.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Okay Thomas, thanks for the question. I'll take the first one and a half question I guess. So
obviously, I wish it was true, right? I wish we could just say what the price should be and
then the market will follow. I'll just remind you that after 2017, where we had very big
natural catastrophes, we pushed very hard, but we were alone and we were not able to
have any influence in the market. So I think you could on the positive way for the market
you could say competition is working extremely well, but certainly I think that will be an
illusion to think that we can just steer the market as we like, right? There was just too
much appetite, too much capital inflowing after '17. And so the question is, is it different
this time, yes or no? But this has certainly made us cautious.

Page 28 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

I'm also cautious in just listening to competition, you can see a marked difference
between the corporate solutions markets where you hear everybody saying we're going
to cut, it's not profitable, new management, we change everything, et cetera. So and
there's a massive price increase, a massive hardening happening. And reinsurance where
the tone seems to be, we see massive opportunity, we want to grow, that's what I'm
hearing from the rest. And that's what I'm hearing from the market, doesn't make me as
bullish as I am on corporate solutions. But I hope reason will prevail. The group wants
regions to push profitability. So there's no particular push on growth and there's a lot of
focus on profitability, I think still work to do on casualty. We think that we're going to see
good rate increases on the nat cat side, which obviously we have to hedge a lot off. So
I'm positive, mildly positive about where we're going to go, but we're going to go in with
caution and we're certainly going to be pushing having a focus on margins.
And by the way just to correct, like you said, 6% increase, zero percent economic
increase, but in terms of combined ratio, some of the -- some of it goes to the combined
ratio. I've 4 points, the ones that are related to discounting, they go through combined
ratio, so we had improvements in the combined ratio and we certainly expect further
improvements in combined ratio I think is highly likely.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guido Furer
Okay. Maybe Thomas, a very good question on the running yield, thank you very much.
Running yield is a very particular KPI and that's why also I announced early on that we
move to something which is closer to our peers in 2021. We will call it recurring investment
yield, which again should give a better guidance because it adds to additional asset
classes. For example, real estate is a good example, but those are some of the dividend
which we get out of equity. That's probably a much better I guess cockpit to on debate
what this kind of recurring with the relatively high likelihood.
Now, if I look at the current running yield, and again, that's kind of Swiss Re's version,
which will be adjusted so that we can move closer to what our peers kind of present
under this recurring piece. It was mainly impacted by two things this year, one was a lower
yield. Again, we dropped 120 basis points in the 10 year and that of course has an impact
on the denominator, and it was a big one if you calculate it times the duration. Then we
have portfolio action, which was another piece which again led to a reduction in the socalled running yield, but of course, result was a much better kind of quality. And I think the
portfolio which is a much more fit for even turmoil and more volatile time.
Now, how does it look going forward. I showed you where our unrealised gain is and that
they still believe is probably one of the biggest kind of safety piece, which makes us less
vulnerable than most of our peers. And for that piece, which is big as you have seen from
the duration point of view, 44% in the 10 plus year and then another probably close to
20% in the 5 plus year. That means the bulk is out 5 year plus, I don't need to reinvest.
And with that and somehow immune in respect of the current yield environment.
Now the rest, of course, yes, we need to reinvest. Now the good thing is we have 21% in
cash and I don't have to tell your cash doesn't earn a lot of money. We avoid the negative
currency. Again, Swiss Re is mainly a US dollar company. There we don't have negative
Page 29 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

yield, but it's low. But as soon as I deploy that piece, even if it's high quality investment
grade short-term, I can add considerable additional spread income. And that's why in our
case, because we have so much optionality in the book, it's very hard to say what kind of
the spread is of yields which is staying very low.
If you look at the market, they have much more kind of deploy capital in financial market
less kind of allocation to cash. That means, the (inaudible) much more the current
reinvestment risk, which of course is lower than it used to be. We are different and that's
why if rates are staying at, there are no further drops, I think we will have a completely
different drag on the recurring investment income compared to our peers. That's why I
feel comfortable that the action which you have taken then should allow us to really serve
through very choppy market because its highest quality of the portfolio. I have cash
allocation, which of course, we will deploy and you heard Christian, but also you heard
John, our CFO, this creates a lot of optionality.
Financial market risk right now is a very low shortfall capital user and it's in the area of
24%, and if you add credit risk on the insurance side, we are close to 31, this is clearly
below market. And I think that's a great option and again we have the options we deploy
the capital in area where we are in a bit more than just kind of see your interest rate. This
will be a big mitigation against that low-yield environment. Thank you.

A - Thomas Bohun

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Thomas. James from Citi Group. Please go ahead.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for taking my follow-up. First question just on the COVID losses. Thank you for
that update. Just keen to know whether there's any impact from the Australian adverse
judgment on the test [ph] case, which we quantify that for is whether you should have
included anything in your reserving?
Secondly, the sustainability side of things, which was interesting and thank you for the
insight into what you're doing on the underwriting side in terms of limiting some of your
exposure to oil and gas. I'm just interested to know how you actually integrate
sustainability more holistically into your underwriting processes, when it comes to actually
allocating capital to the potential areas that may not fit within that framework. How do you
think about your premium that's exposed in that area and particularly in vulnerable areas
over the medium term? Thank you.

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So maybe I'll take the question on the Australian ruling. As we mentioned before vis-a-vis
the lockdown as the triggering event for most of the what we believe are covered
business interruption losses on properties portfolios, we did book considerable positions
in the second quarter. You see that these remained as of Q3 largely IBNRs and that
included some losses that we expected would migrate up from Australia. The specific
ruling I think I'd say was probably a little more negative than the industry might have

Page 30 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

thought, I think it's uncertain exactly what it means for the industry more broadly, there's
some other test cases which will come and so we'll wait and see.
What I can say is there's we saw no reason to immediately jump to a change of view of
what our exposures and ultimate losses might be, we will continue to evaluate this and as
we get a better sense of what this means for some of our specific clients and our specific
shares, we might or might not adjust it, but right now in the IBNR there is a piece that's
related to Australia as well as a piece related to the UK where we saw exposures already
in the second quarter and exactly whether those assumptions remain valid we will see
over time and probably update on Q4.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. I'll take the second question. I think it's really interesting and extremely timely what
you asked, because on the underwriting side, I think we started more than 10 years ago
with some exclusions, 15 years ago maybe exclusions, we're going to exclude the very
delicate industries of like tar, sand, et cetera, and then last year, we started with a main
industry, oil and gas which is one we support, right, overall, but trying to find out how we
can encourage, let's say, those who put the least attention to these topics to become
more like some of the others, but you're right, we need something much more holistic.
On the asset side, we are referring to ESG scores, which are by no means perfect, but at
least to give you a sense and you (inaudible) of measuring it. Ultimately, also on the other
ending side, we will have to find a way to measure the footprint, right, the carbon
footprint, for example, or the ESG footprint of all of our clients and think about ways in a
holistic way and then measure how much or what's basically the carbon footprint of the
sum of all clients we have and how much we support them to have quantitative measures
so that we can start to measure it down, right, this footprint of these clients we have. And
actually, we've started to develop these measures, we're going to use them internally
next year to be part of the objectives also set by the comp committee for the executive
team and its broken down and it's very timely, but we haven't disclosed the details and
obviously still some of these methods are still in flux. So I guess, like everybody else,
we're trying to find ways to make it as rational as possible.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, James. Emanuele Musio from Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, Emanuele.

Q - Emanuele Musio

{BIO 19781440 <GO>}

Hello. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. It is a big question on rates. So this year, prices
have gone up across many lines of business and momentum seems to continue into 2021.
So my question is, there are some players in reinsurance that are focusing on a very
limited number of lines of business, but really more aligned, but very limited focus. Do you
think that a growing number of these players may decide to enter the line of business,
this may slow down rate improvement? For example, let's say, a start-up in the capital [ph]
space with a clean balance sheet is not exposed to some of the legacy issues, for
example, resulting debts, that are one of the components in the current (inaudible) prices.

Page 31 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Do you think that these could be something leading to a slowdown in gradual
improvement or maybe a deterioration again in certain line of business?

FINAL

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe I'll take that, right? I think that every time a market hardens, you had new
players coming. I think that's a natural process. Actually, in some of the past, it was much,
much bigger. Now, of course, also in this environment, you see some players come in, but
their overall capital is relatively small compared to the overall industry, (inaudible) $1 billion
or $2 billion of capital, it's relatively small. So it's going to be more, it's going to be -- it's
not really positive. I agree, right? Obviously, every time capacity comes in, it's not, but I
don't think it's going to compensate for the GAAP.
So if you take on the reinsurance side, I think for any client of ours to certainly try to switch
to smaller place, it's totally impossible, right? If you think how much has been placed over
the last 50 years with some of the major player, so I think it's going to be used for
leverage and negotiation or something like that, but it's not going to be a major factor.
And I think in the corporate space, the issues in the past loss have been so large that I
think all -- really all the major players are extremely disciplined right now and I don't think
that the entrance of one or two smaller players is going to change that significantly. So I'd
say, yes, it's certainly not helpful, but it's not at the scale or size that I think it's going to
derail the momentum.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Maybe if I could just add to that, so the CorSo team has been tracking very closely various
lines of business, including the lines that they've exited, and what I can say is where you
might see some new people or new entrants say they're going to focus on excess and
surplus lines or umbrella casualty or other parts of the liability portfolio, CorSo is out of
those lines and soon after CorSo made that decision, a series of other important players
in the market have also decided to either scale back materially or completely exit these
positions. And so what you're seeing I think is much some backfill of capacity to replace a
greater amount that's been taken out rather than a net new capacity when you look
what's happened.
So again, I credit Andreas and the team from moving aggressively and moving early
compared to lots of people in this space. But you continue to read about reports of
people that are basically coming to the conclusion that even current rates for some of
these liability lines are challenging and will be exiting if they have not already exited. So
that's the dynamic on that side. I think on the reinsurance side, yes, there's going to be
some people trying to be opportunistic, but that's especially what Christian was saying,
their relative size is not going to influence. I don't think pricing that Swiss Re Group sees
that it might influence what some of the other small players who normally take a 2% share
might look at.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Emanuele. I'll take one last question from Ian Pierce, Credit Suisse. Go ahead
Ian.

Page 32 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just two quick ones, hopefully. On the liquidity buffer
at group, I'm just wondering, what the normal level of liquidity you would aim to hold at
group would be, to what sort of the $4.1 billion, how much of that is in excess buffer you
would sort of imply in that number?
And then also on the liquidity. You seem relatively optimistic on the outlook for investment
markets. I'm just wondering, why that liquidity hasn't been deployed into investments as
yet and when we can expect that to be deployed into better returning assets?

A - John Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So I'll leave the second one to Guido. On the first one, we don't necessarily have a target
liquidity at group level. What I can say is the overall liquidity position of the group is not
just what we've holding at the group level, but also in very specific areas is probably a
little higher than we've had in recent years, and it doesn't mean that I'm necessarily
focused on moving this down, but I'd say that there's no view that says we need to grow
the liquidity that we currently have at the group level. So that's a little bit of guidance I can
give you there. I think over time, we expect the businesses to return on a post COVID
world to strong earnings return, the dividend capacity and a normal flow of funds up the
ladder, and in that context we'll see where we can deploy it.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guido Furer
Thank you. Ian, on your second question, it's a fair challenge, with this more constructive
outlook why we haven't yet moved after say it is more constructive outlook clearly is not
born three months ago, it was born after the US election, but clearly also since we have
some very positive views on the vaccine development, I think these were kind of the right
trigger moment to become more constructive.
The policy both fiscal and monetary that whatever be (inaudible) confirmation this will
continue. I know it's a political discussion on some of the emergency program, but
ultimately everyone expected this whole top which gives the perfect base to find the right
entrance point. We started to deploy the capital. As you know, we have a dynamic kind of
hedging program on the balance sheet, the good thing is on the equity side I mentioned
is also at the last call we have a lot of upside that means we only mainly work with option,
that means a good profit from the rally. Now the $21 billion cash, it's no doubt, this is too
big with this outlook and we used at the right moment to further deploy the capital. Thank
you.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Guido, Christian and John. Thank you for all the questions. This ends our
morning session and will reconvene in an hour. Thank you, everyone.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Thank you, Thomas. Welcome back everyone. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As
Christian, John and Guido have laid out in the first session the insurance and reinsurance
Page 33 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

industry are living very difficult times. After years of nat cat, property and casualty losses,
COVID-19 and the very low interest rate environment has made the situation even worse.
On this background, Swiss Re has decided to take very decisive action to increase its
margin and adjust its portfolio. As a result of that, we expect this portfolio to withstand
future volatility much better than in the past and deliver attractive returns to our
shareholders.
This slide shows the environment in which we are in currently really well in my view. You
can see the gray shaded area which is the capital inflow into the reinsurance industry over
the last 20-30 years. You can also see the dark shaded part, which is the alternative
capital that actually flew into the reinsurance industry on top of the growth in the
traditional area. As a result, the offer side has been outstripping the demand side, and
you can see at the example of the yellow line that the prices for example in nat cat across
all lines of business has been reducing since 2012. We have seen slight increases over the
last one to two years, but of course nowhere enough to compensate for the reductions in
the years before. And all of this happened on the background of very active nat cat
seasons with huge losses, but also in man-made losses, it couldn't stop the influx of
capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on top of it as I mentioned already, we can see the decline in interest rates for now
almost 30 years from 7% in 1994 to below 1% in 2020. And you can see that the reduction
in interest rates between '18 and '20 has been almost vertical on this slide. So a very
difficult environment, almost toxic cocktail for the insurance and reinsurance industry. But
out of this difficult situation, there are as well opportunities for us and I will come back to
that in a few minutes.
Let me start with a few actions that we have taken. Interest rates obviously is a concern to
the insurance industry. In our costing, you know that we have the economic value
management, there's our costing and steering metric at Swiss Re. In that costing, we
discount future cash flows at risk-free rate. This means that with every costing, we take
into account the actual interest rate environment. By doing so, we actually force the sales
channel to sell the products at the higher price to compensate for that lower discount
rate.
On the GAAP side, you can see the impacts this has. If in 2018, we required 40% of US
GAAP earnings to come from underwriting income, that underwriting -- technical
underwriting contribution in 2020 has to be 60% just to compensate for the reduction in
interest rates. That means that 50% price increases has been required just for -- 60%
increase in contribution has been required just to compensate for the reduction in interest
rates.
So you can see that therefore some of the price increases we have seen lately has been
required just to compensate for this. So this is why price increases on are happening
across the industry and why also Swiss Re is pushing very hard.
COVID-19 as I said makes the whole situation even worse. The particularity about COVID19 was that it impacted the industry simultaneously, globally, and across all lines of

Page 34 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

business. It has led to huge losses and it's not over yet, COVID-19 is still ongoing.

FINAL

Swiss Re estimates that the COVID crisis will cost the industry $60 billion to $80 billion.
This number is a gross number; obviously, there are some positive elements as well for
example in the motor insurance from COVID. But this across number $60 billion to $80
billion would make it one of the largest events ever in the insurance industry.
Christian mentioned the impact this does have across all lines of business and how this
actually comes through the different layers in insurance and reinsurance. First, it reminded
everyone in P&C to review their wording. It was -- it became very clear and the court's
decisions show it to us every week that stepped in weaknesses in the way the primary
insurers have defined their covers. And there's these covers now all up into the
reinsurance programs, particularly on the accommodation programs, the CatNet
programs. We see that we also have some learnings from this event and they are beyond
the exclusion of infectious diseases, other clarifications that need to be done. And we are
obviously in discussion with our clients to discuss those and close those.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the Life & Health side, the pandemic has always been part of our models. It has always
been part of what we expect to happen from time-to-time. So the impact there was more
that we have to differentiate between the health impacts of COVID-19 and the economic
impact of COVID-19. And I will let you know later what actions we have taken in those
areas.
I mentioned opportunities coming out of this very challenging situation. You can see here
the Global Resilience Index as published by the Swiss Re Institute. And you can see that
the macro index has been reducing between 2008 and 2020 from 63 to 50. This shows
that the resilience in our societies has reduced. This shows that the resilience of
governments, societies, companies, people have reduced. And it has impacted obviously
also the insurance companies, our clients.
You can see therefore an increasing demand to cover for example for their earnings
volatility. You can see demand increasing for balance sheet protection or capital
protection. And you can see demands to optimise their portfolio mix for example. So
three areas where we see an increased demand. And we think that with our superior
capital base, our client relationships, but also with our underwriting and our solutions, we
are extremely well placed to help our clients through these difficult times, which would
allow us to grow our portfolio at profitable terms.
We have taken further focused areas and I would like to mention 4 of the most impactful
ones. This is our -- an overview of our portfolio. Since we have developed a strategic
target liability portfolio ceiling, in this, we split our overall portfolio into 45 different
portfolios. We developed a forward-looking view for each of these portfolios before we
look and use are developed on the back of many different data points, the economy, the
competition around the client, the quality of underwriting of the client and so on. We then
classify those different areas into portfolios you want to grow, those you want to shrink
and those where we need to improve the margins. And you can see the impact they've
had over the last 18 months. So the chart to the right shows, how the portfolio has been

Page 35 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

moving over the last 18 months. So you can see that, we have been growing the blue
bubbles that were supposed to grow. You can see that we have been shrinking the
portfolios that we wanted to shrink strategically and you can see that we have improved
the margins on those portfolios that needed an improvement in margin. So this strategic
target liability portfolio management for us we feel is a real differentiator and should lead
to outperformance in the long-term.
The second significant action we have taken is on the nat cat side. Nat cat is our most
profitable and most important line of business for many decades already. It's a line of
business we understand extremely well. We have our own proprietary models. We model
180 perils and we have demonstrated that over 5, 10, 15, 20 years, the expected to or the
actual to expected loss actually is excellent. So actual equals expected.
So we have a lot of confidence in our nat cat model and underwriting. Despite that, we
have observed over the last years that in the space of secondary perils, particularly those
that are driven by climate change, there has been an increased loss activity as laid out on
this slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

You must imagine that every loss represents another data point in our model. And each
time, it will influence the model sometimes to the better, sometimes to the worse,
sometimes the changes can be bigger, sometimes smaller. So it's a very normal standard
procedure of the losses that we review our models. In this case, the changes were a bit
larger and we have updated our models in Australia, Japan and California for wildfires for
example, they're already in production and have been already used in the renewals. So
we remain very confident in our models also talking about climate change.
The third area of action we took was in the space of US casualty. Obviously, on the back of
some difficulties with heavy loss load, we have been investigating the space to
understand the root causes of that development. And we found out that the combination
of large corporate risk exposure and social inflation was one to watch. Indeed, we think
that with the rise of plaintiff bars, we can see more and more money funding moving into
the area of plaintiff bars, we can see the new techniques and strategies they are utilizing
and we can see that they are going particularly after the deep top air pockets of the large
corporate risks. And besides this combination is a very difficult one. So I've decided to
take very drastic actions. Accordingly, in CorSo, we have reduced our exposure to US
general liability to zero in 2020 already.
On the reinsurance side, we will by next year reduce our exposure to large corporate risks
by 50%. The other 50% will remain with some key clients of ours that are leading players
in the US casualty space that we continue to support, but also on some treaties where
besides the LCR risks, we get actually a significant proportion of non-LCR risks. I feel very
positive about our portfolios that we will be left with in 2021, and since that's a portfolio
we can build on and certainly also steer through the uncertainties ahead.
On top of it, we obviously particularly in the space of US casualty have increased prices.
And you can see that we have been able in July this year to decrease the commission

Page 36 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

level on our reinsurance treaties by around 5 percentage points. Considering that the
reinsurance commission is around 25%, 30%, a 5% reduction is obviously very significant.

FINAL

Overall, we have seen at the July renewals an 11% nominal rate increase across all of
casualty and 20% for US liability. So we can see that the actions of resizing and redirecting
our US casualty portfolio together with strong rate actions will position us very favourably
in the years to come.
Let me switch to Life & Health. I haven't said much about Life & Health, but obviously
strongly impacted by COVID too. We have strong confidence in our Life & Health
underwriting. We think we have a very, very strong global team in Life & Health. We have a
very large in-force book. We have an excellent understanding of our in-force book and
how we can extract value from this in-force book. On the new business, however, we have
to react to what Christian called the burning house to the ongoing COVID crisis and we
have adjusted our underwriting guidelines for new business. That doesn't mean that we
don't support our clients anymore, we do actually support our clients and we still insure
people, consumers out there that needs protection.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the impacts -- more economic impacts on COVID-19 on Life & Health, it is very clear
that the line of business such as disability has experienced historically loss, peaks of the
economic crisis, so this is certainly not the time to increase our capital allocated to this line
of business. To the contrary if there are possibilities, we will reduce our exposure to this
line of business in the one to two years to come. But overall, we remain very confident in
our Life & Health underwriting also during these very difficult times.
We have a very strong focus on the year end now and the improvement of our portfolio
overall, but also on adjusting the portfolio to the new realities that there are. We keep an
eye on the future and there on the long-term and there are the three things that are top
on our mind. One is, improving the underwriting process. We see today that there is
technology around that is helping us to process underwriting in a different way. It enables
us to enhance the underwriting process with data and analytics in the way it hasn't been
able before. So it really leads to some sort of a machine enhanced underwriter if you want
and putting the underwriting in a much better position to underwrite risks in going
forward, so make better decisions and faster.
The second thing we are doing, we continue to invest in our strategic target liability
portfolio steering capabilities. I told you that there is a lot of data flowing into this steering
tool and we are convinced that more is possible. More is possible, there's more data
around and better ways even to use all that data to lead to even better forward-looking
use for the portfolios, but also we need to put all these portfolios in context to each other
to make sure that these individual forward-looking use also makes sense as a whole. So
there is lots of efforts and investments done in that stage.
The third area I wanted to mention is contracts. Contracts actually are our products and
we are looking at ways how we can improve, but again here with technology today
available, how we can improve our contracts management end-to-end. We think there is a
way to actually improve that -- quite dramatically improve the quality but also the

Page 37 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

efficiency of those processes and ultimately leads to a position where we will have much
better understanding insight into our wording. This will enable us to become even more
(inaudible) than we are today in addressing emergent issues around our products. So very
exciting outlook into, what I call, the future of underwriting at Swiss Re and something we
see very strongly about and will help us to differentiate in going forward.
In conclusion, just these two graphs. On the left, you can see our underwriting portfolio in
2017, at the bottom of the soft market. You can see that about half of our portfolios were
not earning its cost of capital and the other half obviously was above that line that was in
2017. Next year, the portfolio will have shifted to the right side. So we can see that with the
exception of just one or two smaller portfolios, all the other portfolios will have moved
above cost of capital. And you can also see that the average profitability of the portfolio
to the right one will be in next year is significantly higher than the return we had in 2017.
So this makes me feel very optimistic about the portfolio that we will have built by next
year. It's a portfolio again that will help us to withstand future volatility in a much stronger
way than before. It's a portfolio that will deliver higher margins to our shareholders and it's
a portfolio that positions us extremely well to help our clients through these difficult times,
which in turn will enable us to grow our business further at very profitable terms.
Moses, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Thierry. Good afternoon, everyone. And following on with what
Thierry said, from a reinsurance standpoint, our focus clearly is on increasing the earnings
power of the reinsurance business, leveraging the assets that Christian showed on this
chart, so you'll see if we recall on the number of the charts are global scale and present,
the diversification that we have as an organisation, the knowledge that we bring, and of
course, the strong franchise value that the organisation itself has. You are familiar with the
fact that we have three pillars in our strategy: Solutions, transactions, and core, where we
see room for us to be able to drive the sort of differentiation that we feel the franchise
Swiss Re deserves in the marketplace.
In solutions, since we showed you this framework over the last year, more clients have
come to us seeking to partner with us in the areas of solutions. So we feel very strongly
that this is an area that will continue to penetrate and will represent a greater proportion
of the income that comes from the reinsurance business. In the transaction space,
demand is fairly stable and diversified. So we see large and small transactions and we
also see transactions across the entire world as well. And in the core of our business over
the midterm, we expect that this is a business that will continue to grow and in line with
expectations of growth for GDP. We see opportunities specifically in the regional and
national space and I'll come back to that particular point in a little bit.
But I think it's sort of good to reflect on the portfolio, we've been able to build in the
performance of the portfolio over the last four years. The charts here that I show you are
driven by -- are presented on economic terms, and you can clearly see that we've grown
the premiums by almost 40% over this four-year period. And that growth is done in a fairly
Page 38 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

diversified way across lines of business, across line segments and you also see that
across geographies as well.
From an economic profit standpoint, you also see clearly that we've grown the economic
profit which is super important, and as I think as John mentioned to you earlier today, that
allows us to still be able to pay dividends even in times where you have significant natural
catastrophes or losses as we experienced during this period of time if you also include
something like COVID in 2020 as well. So the economic profit has systematically grown as
a function of some of the elements that I will talk to you a little bit later in terms of the
portfolios where a number of this growth is coming from. But it gives us a great amount of
confidence to continue to cultivate this portfolio, look for opportunities to continue to
grow it and even areas that have distracted or deviated from the mean, which is mostly
not having things like COVID. Over the long term, we're hopeful that they will revert back
to the mean, and the earnings that you see in economic terms will translate also to US
GAAP.
We're able to grow the business as a function of one of the key assets we talked about
which is a client franchise that we filled and which we continue to develop. As of today, we
have just over 2,300 active clients and not all of them are the same, they require different
modes of service depending on their needs, depending on the complexity of the
underlying business. And we also ensure that we shape ourselves in a way that allows us
to be able to serve this customer set. Those customers and depending on which line of
business that they (inaudible) also in terms of how we access them in the Life & Health
business, almost none of that business is done on a direct basis because most of the
customers in the Life & Health business also require considerable services and solutions,
which means that it's far better if you interact on a direct basis rather than if it's
intermediated. In every instance, we always go with the preference of the clients rather
than having a preference on our own in terms of the model that we (inaudible) we go with
the preference of the client.
On the P&C side, you can see the debt almost half and half. With half of the clients
dealing with us direct and the other half intermediating through brokers. And given the
scale of our P&C business, if half of it is going through brokers, it also clearly means that
the partnerships that we construct with brokers is super important for us as a company.
And you can see that in terms of how the brokers also look at us, if you look at the righthand side of the chart, which looks at NMG, they do client satisfaction service for the
industry overall for P&C as well as for Life & Health and you can see that the brokers rank
us number one. That's on P&C, they don't rank on Life & Health.
And then the other two bars are what we call target market and total market. In target
market, simply, we setup clients that we serve. Those clients in both Life & Health and
P&C, they rank Swiss Re also as number one. The total market encompasses the target
clients that we serve, but also the broader set of markets including clients that we do not
serve. And here in P&C, you see that we are ranked number one, and in Life & Health, we
are ranked number two. So overall from a client satisfaction standpoint, Swiss Re has
ranked fairly highly. There're some areas that our clients are critical of us and we continue
to work in those areas to ensure that we continue to build this franchise.

Page 39 of 64



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

One area that we've also spent a considerable amount of time, Christian sort of alluded
to this in his presentation, is in making sure that we are more competitive. So you can see
over this five-year period for both Life & Health and P&C, we've moved away from being
an outlier in terms of total cost from a US GAAP standpoint and total cost in this case is
operating expenses plus acquisition costs to be more in line with peers, which makes us
far more competitive, and we've done that by making sure that we allocate resources to
areas that are going to grow. By also ensuring that for our clients, we provide the right
service to the right client, so not the same exact set of services to everybody and the
services that we provide are aligned completely with also the economic returns that we
expect to generate from a particular client in addition to the various efficiency initiatives
that we undertake as well. Christian mentioned the whole productivity metric that we
pursue every single year, but in addition to that, we deploy technology, as well as ensuring
that the footprints that we have around the world. We optimise that working together with
our colleagues in the group operations space. I also thought it was important to talk about
the diversification benefit that we generate in terms from our capital as well looking at the
scale of business that we write which comes in very handy from a competitive standpoint
when you're writing certain (inaudible) like nat cat as well as mortality, but the overall
message is, we are far more competitive and we've worked hard at that and clearly we
will continue to do exactly the same moving forward.
I'll turn my attention to (inaudible) solutions. And in solutions, as I mentioned, the demand
continues to grow, where today we have roughly 40% of our clients who used one or
more solutions that we provide and it generates over $300 million of economic profit to
us, more than double what it was just four years ago and our expectation is that this will
continue to grow and we developed solutions across the entire value chain from product
development all the way through in-force management. And I give a few examples on
product development as an example. If we take the year 2019, we co-created, codeveloped with our clients over 200 products, which generated over $5 billion in
premiums to these clients which is material and we will continue to do that. This is where
the knowledge and the data that we have puts us in a good place to be able to partner
our clients because all of them are looking for different products to be able to try and
increase their growth rates and also to try and improve profitability as well.
And in the area of improving profitability, when it comes to both underwriting as well as
efficiency, we have underwriting platforms that we have yields. You've always heard us talk
about Magnum, and I just put some data and statistics around Magnum. Again taking 2019,
over 13 million applications processed in Magnum and the straight through processing
metric for that improved by almost 100%. So meaning, we're processing faster and less
intervention, which from the client standpoint improves their profitability but also improves
their efficiency as well. And the equivalent for Magnum in P&C business with Swiss Re for
single risk business, so not treaties but for single risk, where our clients want to place
certain pieces of business with us, they use our Swiss Re platform and here the average
time for processing application in Swiss Re is now 5 minutes, which ordinarily before they
would have to make a call or send an email, takes lots of time and you can then see the
reduced time in underwriting is over 90%. So there's a series of solutions that we're
developing to try to enable our clients again help improve their profitability, help improve
efficiency, but also targets the areas of growth that they're trying to pursue.

Page 40 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

I won't spend so much time on this because you've just seen the chat from Thierry, the
target liability portfolio, which is a framework we used to steer, where we want to place
capital, where we want to grow, where we want to (inaudible). So I'll focus much more on
the chart on the right-hand side because it looks that the main portfolios that we have or
the lines of business in reinsurance and what we expect to do going into 2021. And you
can see across most lines of business with the exception of few, they want -- with the
exception of a few, we expect pricing to go up, but the fact that pricing goes up on the
line of business is not sufficient or the only determinant factor that says we then expect to
increase exposure, we take pricing with a host of other factors, combine them and
ultimately decide whether that's the portfolio we should be growing or whether that's a
portfolio we should be reducing, the sole focus we have is trying to improve margin and
make sure that at the end of the year, we have a portfolio that has a far greater price
inadequacy or rate adequacy than the one we started the year out with. And giving the
profile that we've set up, we feel relatively confident going into next year that we should
have a much better portfolio constructed than the one that we are sitting on today.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'll probably now delve into certain areas in P&C. And the focus on P&C is to try and
demonstrate that over time, we've been able to grow the economic earnings power of
the P&C franchise in a fairly strong way as you will see in terms of the data that we should
end. Even though we've done that, we see opportunities to still be able to grow the
portfolio in areas where there had been a distraction or deviation from the expected,
we're also addressing those areas.
The first is on nat cat, which Thierry also touched on, this relates to the reinsurance
portfolio and you can see how nicely we've been able to grow the premiums and also the
capital that we've dedicated to the nat cat business. Clearly, the growth that we've
embarked on since 2017, which was the bottom of the cycle, you remember the chart
again that was in Thierry's slide around the price inadequacy for nat cat globally or the
index rather for nat cat globally. You can see the shift in 2017, that's when we began to
grow the portfolio. And you will also see from the bottom half of the left-hand chart, that
we've grown the portfolio mostly in areas where the price adjusted -- the price index on
an adjusted basis has increased the most. And since 2014, as a result of that, the
expected US GAAP earnings from the nat cat portfolio has grown by over $400 million. So
quite a significant way in terms of steering the portfolio, picking the right area we want to
be and doing that mainly driven by margins.
And the next area which we tend not to talk a lot about is that specialty portfolio, but this
is a really solid portfolio that has been grown in a very disciplined way. Since 2017, with
rate increases, you also see material growth in the specialty portfolio, and you also see
over the period of time since we've been measuring for the specialty portfolio, which is
2014, the amount of profits that's generated on a US GAAP basis, the average over the
period since 2014 is over $300 million and this is on an actual basis, so not adjusted in
anywhere, not on the basis of expected, but an actual basis.
And this is despite the fact that during this period you had clearly lots of significant events
throughout the entire year for the portfolio delivered for us on average significant profits.
And since 2017, when we increased our participation in this space, the amount of
economic profits we expect to generate from this portfolio has also grown at almost 10%
Page 41 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

per year. We're able to do this because we've got a fantastic team around the entire
world of professionals, who use extensively innovation and technology to ensure that
they're coming up with new products to aid our customers, but also to ensure that they're
using innovation and technology to assess exposure very well.
Those teams are local, so they have a good sense of what's happening in the local
environment and know which client and which risk they should be on and which clients and
which risk they should not be on. We remain optimistic that this is an area that will continue
to grow, but as the TLP framework also shows you, we don't just try to go every single
thing. We take a view on a line by line basis, certain lines are clearly attractive. While you
look at credit and surety going into 2021, that's an area that we do not see as an area, we
should be deploying more capital at this particular time of the cycle.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then I come to regionals and nationals which I mentioned in the strategic framework,
which again from our perspective, we see as an attractive client segment that we have
grown between 2017 and now. But if you look at the distinguishment between our global
clients and regional and national client, we clearly have a higher market share with our
global clients. And in our view, this gives us opportunity and potential for growth with the
R&N segment where we see our portfolio as quite profitable and also less volatile.
So growth in the regionals and national space, it will require us to partner with brokers,
who have penetration in this particular space to be able to access a number of clients that
today we do not access. We see opportunity for growth across the entire globe, which is
represented by the chart in the middle, where in the midterm, we expect this line of this
segment to grow in line with our GDP overall. Clearly, part of what also enables us to grow
in R&N is the fact that over time, we have become more competitive as a company
because this is a segment where the ticket size is smaller. So you have to be able to
process this in a much more efficient way and your cost base also has to be in line with
that -- with the goal of being able to deliver a price that -- a price point that customers in
this segment find attractive, but is an area that we clearly see as having opportunity for us
to grow at really, really good margins.
And I come to this slide which looks at the performance of the P&C business over a
longer period, split almost into two segments, which is the two periods, the chart on the
left-hand side. Looking at sort of like the long-term normalised combined ratio for the
P&C business versus the actual. And when we look at the actual and the expected and the
deviation is driven in recent times by two main things. One is the performance of the nat
cat portfolio and the other is US liability.
In the nat cat portfolio, I think if you look over the entire period of time, the two dark blue
bars over the entire period of time, so that tells you that our performance over the entire
period of time is not far from what we expected, mostly in line with what we expected.
And when we look at the recent period which is since 2017, in reality the performance of
our nat cat portfolio is largely in line with that of our competitors, so it's not out of line. So I
think it's important when we look at nat cat to look over the cycle.

Page 42 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Now having said that, clearly a number of lessons that we've learned and in the areas that
we've learned lessons, we are making adjustments to our model; as Thierry mentioned,
adjustments to the assumptions that we make in terms of like the guidelines to ensure
that the performance of nat cat is in line with exactly what we expect.
The other which is US casualty, with the chart, the light blue, you see in the earlier part of
the period significant reserve releases in more recent times driven by the lost trends,
which were clearly worse than what we expected; clearly, we were not able to offset the
worse than expected lower strength in US casualty from other parts of the portfolio, which
is why in the latter part you see a little bit of reserve strengthening, and we've tried to
address that through a combination of factors; Thierry mentioned some of them which is
what we do in terms of reduction of exposure in areas that we feel we cannot generate
the sort of returns that we should be generating. But also in the other part of the
portfolio, increasing significantly the reserves that sit there and also shifting some of the
initial loss peaks higher to give us far greater confidence about the performance of that
part of the portfolio. So it's something that we saw we are addressing very strongly and
comprehensively.
I will now shift to Life & Health, which has delivered solid returns for us. Since (inaudible) in
2014, the ROE that's been delivered by Life & Health, our portfolio is in the target range
that we've indicated between 10% and 12%, and that's by generating good new business,
but also actively managing the in-force portfolio as well. And talk about the new business.
Again, here you see in terms of growth of the Life & Health business, economic premiums
more than 50% growth since 2017. But also in terms of the economic profits that we
expect from the business over $1 billion each year. With the ROE, as I mentioned, at over - at the top end of the range, so over 12%, and we expect that we will continue to see
opportunities to grow our Life & Health business. We do that carefully, especially in an
environment where interest rates are lower. But even with the lower interest rates, I think
it creates challenges for a number of our clients which by its very nature spells opportunity
for us and we will walk alongside them and ensure that we are able to support them and
at the same time find a way to try and grow our own portfolio.
It is similar to the other areas. We look at each element of Life & Health. Certain risk pools
are far more attractive than others, and in certain risk pools where we've seen significant
growth, if I take critical illness as an example, then we now have good market share.
We've moved to an environment where we focus on trying to move away from hard
guarantees to soft guarantees and make a number of other adjustments, it's why we
place the portfolio in the enhanced category in a steering framework.
The growth, as I mentioned, if you sort of like look at the in-force -- sorry, the new
business as well as in-force, the profile since 2012, material change in that profile. The first
element you see is the quantum of economic profits that were generated in 2012 versus
2020, much more than 50% growth in the absolute number, and then the second is the
composition of the economic profits that we generate, where before it was dominated by
North America, now, you see greater balance around the entire world and you also see
greater contribution coming out of health as well as longevity compared to 8 years ago.

Page 43 of 64



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

This element from a new business standpoint clearly has an impact on the in-force
portfolio as well. So you now see a situation where Asia represents 16% of the in-force
portfolio; in 2012, that number would have been close to 5%, and the same thing for
EMEA, so Americas no longer dominate the portfolio overall. And when it comes to the
US, that means the pre-2004 elements of the portfolio which was over 50% of the inforce business in 2012, is now less than 20%, and we expect that that number will
continue to fall. And by 2023, the drag that we experience from the pre-2004 on our US
GAAP earnings will also significantly reduce.
And the in-force business we actively manage. We make sure that the motivation for
managing that and doing transactions so in the form of recaptures is an alignment of
interest between the client and us. And from the client standpoint, their motivations are
generally because they're trying to rebalance their portfolio. They are trying to manage
their balance sheet or looking at different ways of earnings recognition. And from our
perspective, we look at how we generate economic value out of this recapture. And if we
look at the last two years roughly starting from Q4 of 2018, we have allowed clients to
recapture roughly $1.3 billion of liabilities. This is still a small, very small percentage of our
in-force liabilities, but that -- those recaptures generated roughly $150 million also in the
US GAAP -- from a US GAAP standpoint. And the bottom half of the chart just shows you
two examples of these recaptures and you can see clearly the motivation of the clients
and us, while sometimes they're slightly different, there's benefits for both organisations
in the recaptures, which is why we allowed those recaptures and will continue to do so, it's
just a healthy part of ensuring that we manage the in-force, which is generally very stable.
And the left-hand side of this chart put some numbers behind the concept that Thierry
showed in his own slides where you can see for 2020, the earnings that we expect from
our business, looking at it from a EVM standpoint and looking at the commensurate US
GAAP impact when you look at both components and then trying to translate that for the
emergence of the earnings in US GAAP overall.
Over time, our clear expectation is that the economic profit that we generate on an EVM
basis will slowly work -- will slowly sort of like confluence with the earnings that we declare
on a U.S. GAAP basis, and the chart shows you exactly why that's the case in terms of the
profile of U.S. GAAP earnings. And when you look at U.S. GAAP earnings, the in-force
business and overlay in each year, the new business that you write on an economic value
basis. So over time, our clear expectation is that the growth that we have seen in
economic profits in the Life & Health business, that will begin to emerge and show
through in U.S. GAAP, especially when the new business sort of replaces sort of like a low - less performing or non-performing prior business in the in-force business.
So this leads us to -- we try very hard not to serve like -- give any sort of forward-looking
statements, but we give you a sense of assumptions that we make and those
assumptions what they lead to or what they will become for us. And on the P&C -- from a
P&C standpoint, we expect to continue the downward decline of our combined ratio.
Christian already mentioned this, so he stole my thunder or I guess the press release
stole my thunder on this one. So at the end of the day, we would expect a combined ratio
in the P&C business to be 96% or below.

Page 44 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

In February, we will give you the exact number for 90 -- for 2021, because then we'll have
gone through renewals for 1/1, we get a good sense of the business mix of the portfolio
and then we can give a more specific number, but for now, we are comfortable saying
that, that number will be 96% or below for P&C. So continuing the exact trend that we
have been on the last five years.
From a Life & Health standpoint, we stay absolutely committed to the 10% to 12% ROE, in
terms of the expectation for the business. For 2021 and 2022, we expect that the ROE will
probably be towards the lower end of the range, but it's important when I talk about the
lower end of the range to also match the ROE up with the shareholders equity. The
shareholders equity that we see for the business at this particular point is now over $8
billion driven by unrealised gains and driven by the interest rate environment that we
happen to be in. As we have the crossover of the pre-2004 business in 2023 and the
drag, the earnings drag reduces, we expect the ROE to move more towards the upper
end of that range.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I sort of conclude with a few things. One, reiterating the targets that we have put out
before, so the 10% to 12% for Life & Health and 10% to 15% for P&C over the cycle. But
also introducing the 96% or below combined ratio targets in 2021 for the P&C business.
But fundamentally, we focus on differentiation in the three pillars for the reinsurance
business that is the strategy, it has worked well for us and we believe very strongly that it
will continue to work for us moving forward.
We think the business environment is very constructive for us to deploy more capital, so
we would expect to grow our business in 2021 and especially in the nat cat space and as I
mentioned in R&N, we see good opportunity to be able to penetrate since we are
underweight in that segment, also addressing areas that has created deviations in the
past in U.S. casualty, we're clearly taking action in this space. And Life & Health which has
produced -- which has had a solid track record, we expect that to continue to be the case,
continue to generate really good new business, which we expect to translate to the
earnings that we see in U.S. GAAP and also making sure that we actively manage the inforce portfolio.
From a solution standpoint, the demand that our client show tells us that this will continue
to be the main area that drives differentiation for us, and will increase economic power for
the reinsurance business. So overall, we continue to focus very strongly on increasing the
earnings power of reinsurance business. We will do that through improving margins and
focusing on profitability and making sure that we have the right portfolio mix overall. So
that's the story for reinsurance and now I will hand over to my colleague, Andreas on --

A - Andreas Berger

{BIO 15171017 <GO>}

Thank you, Moses. Yes, last but not least CorSo. CorSo has come a long way, had made
strong progress and addressing not only the shortcomings from within the business, but
also at the same time starting to implement a strategy for the future. And I think this is
something that is very dear to our heart. We said right from the outset that we're not only
addressing the fixed part of the business creating the foundations for the growth.

Page 45 of 64



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

We at the same time said, we're going to look at the customer needs, we're going to
look at customer pain points, and also at industry inefficiencies. So now is the moment
really to address it as Christian already said and a lot of people prior to my presentation
now, we made good strides, positive strides, but I'm well aware of the old saying, one
swallow does not make a summer. Perseverance, hard work, discipline implementation
and have a clear conviction. This all came together and you could have seen it already. Q1
showed very small already positive trends that was more pronounced in Q2 and Q3, and
we're very confident that we're moving on into making a very positive stride towards the
end of the year.
Now I want you to take away three things today. Number one, Corporate Solutions is core
to the Swiss Re Group strategy. Number two, we are operating in a scaled, attractive,
commercial insurance market. And number three, I'd like to talk you through the update
on the turnaround to the story of CorSo, but let me build on what Christian said before, as
CorSo is an integral part of the Swiss Re group strategy, the profitable growth and vision
of Swiss Re Group. And we can very clearly repeat again that we're very well on track with
our turnaround story to achieve the 98% or better, that's the new announcement basically.
And this we will do because we'll will have access to and we've got a strategic
engagement with corporates and this differentiates us to other groups, reinsurance
groups, but also in the combination also of the overall corporate market.
More and more, we will be basing our strategy on refined and forward-looking data and
technology infrastructure and supported by capabilities and new capabilities in the
underwriting; Thierry was talking about the future of underwriting, CorSo is a very good
example and we can come to this a bit later. All-in-all, this will lead to us being much more
customer-focused, better diversified and more cycle resilient as a company in this market.
I reference the scale of the market, we are working in a $800 billion market when we talk
about the commercial insurance space and the Swiss Re Institute has projected a growth
in this market and they're predicting a plus $1.2 billion market in the next decade,
although, very fragmented, but this is just too big to be ignored from our perspective.
If you look at the addressable market for Corporate Solutions, then it's divided 30/70,
30% is really in the space, the large corporate bespoke mid-corp space. And remember,
we have separated our Chief Underwriting Officer in a bespoke Chief Underwriting
Officer, that's the space that the bespoke Chief Underwriting Officer is operating in, but
we're not ignoring the other part of the market here, we are operating with much more
specialised, targeted, standard propositions, also very much through partnerships,
distribution partnerships and also in particular through joint ventures. Bradesco in Brazil is
one very good example, where we get access to this mid-corp and SME market with very
clear, very broad branch networks from Bradesco. This expansion into the 70% will
obviously diversify our portfolio much better and will bring us also to a lower average
expense ratio in our overall portfolio.
Now, if we look at the access to the customer value, we've done an exercise to really
identify who really the corporates to the target market really is. We identified 40,000
corporates, those are groups; obviously, they've got affiliates and branch offices and
subsidiaries, that numbers exponentially would go up. But if you look at corporates, we're

Page 46 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

talking about 40,000. They represent $230 billion of gross written premium and the good
news is 11,000 of those 40,000 already are in-force businesses for us.
Now if you look at this 11,000 and then you can imagine there's a substantial growth
potential, penetration potential in this customer universe. If you look at our gross premium
written, then it's subdivided in two camps, basically 55% is large corporates and the rest is
mid-sized and others amongst the large corporates and that's the good news, 35% is
really where we have a very strong almost direct relationship, at least the tripartite
relationship with brokers, but very often also a direct relationship. And those direct
relationships are very profitable.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at 123 key accounts, managed accounts, those are the most high touch
accounts where we bring distinct value propositions to the customer. Over the cycle, they
have outperformed very strongly even in the soft market cycle. So it's a very sticky
business, very profitable business and this will lead obviously to us being a specialised,
risk partner for those corporates with good close relationship and that obviously provides
also the entry point into the Swiss Re Group for iptiQ and other parts, for instance, P&C
solutions that we have mentioned already.
Now let me talk to the turnaround story. We have already said that we will focus on
technical excellence and this will set the foundation to pursue future opportunities.
Opportunities we mean by growth, profitable growth opportunities. Now let me start with
Excel with the basics, this is what we call our fixed program. We were revisiting the
portfolio. We were strengthening the underwriting discipline. We were looking at a
stronger operational excellence and productivity. And this all together in turn provided
opportunities to capture market growth within what we labelled our de-commoditised
core business, meaning businesses or lines businesses or segments where we knew we
were strong, where we had assets that we could bring to the party.
Secondly, we would grow with our differentiated primary lead propositions, and lastly,
we're very aware of the fact that more and more beyond risk transfer, the service part of
the business is playing a role, and here we're advancing also the business model and this
obviously underlying with much more technical and data infrastructure and the capabilities
that I have just mentioned.
Now let me talk about Excel with the basics, and here this is something that we have
mentioned a few times, the implementation of our management actions that we started
in 2019 are ready ahead of plan, and this is what I called the walk to the underwriting
profitability. We're starting with a 110% normalised combined ratio in 2018. We have to
increase our initial loss picks, we have spoken about it and this added another 8
percentage points on our combined ratio. We then looked at the pruning of the portfolio.
We were addressing earmarking $900 million of gross written premium that were not
strategically core to us, where we were underperforming, where we had structural cost
disadvantages or where we believed the market per se will not turn into profitability. We
had mentioned to U.S. casualty as one element, but that wasn't the only one. We also had
addressed Marine Cargo, General Aviation and in those event cancellations, we had
mentioned it in the context of COVID. This was a very brave move, but it paid off.

Page 47 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

Here we can say now with conviction that towards the end of the year, we will have
accomplished 85% of it. The rest will obviously come a bit later and also due to the
earning patterns and U.S. GAAP, you will obviously see it over time, and this is the good
news here. A very, very strong part, a substantial part driver for the combined ratio
improvement was the rate increases. Here you can see 12% positive effect on our
combined ratio, we have seen 3% rate increases in 2018, and then suddenly already in
2019, we could generate 12% across the old portfolios, old lines of businesses.
Year-to-date, we stand at 15% and we're very, very confident that this is going to continue
not only due to low interest rate environments, but the market and all participants in the
market show that upward trend. 2% net expense savings, they were offset obviously by
increased reinsurance protection and then we had a positive impact by lower-thanexpected man-made claims activities and this factors here for 4 percentage points in that
combined ratio. So all-in-all, this led us to the 98% combined ratio on a normalised basis,
obviously, excluding COVID for nine months in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you now add the man-made losses on a normalised basis, we would have been then at
102% and this is definitely significantly better than the communicated 105% combined
ratio towards the end of 2020. That's why we're very comfortable and confident that we
will achieve our target. Now we have spoken about the (inaudible), we have to listen to
the Q&As. Before people were saying, okay, what does that then mean to your target, we
set out 98% for 2021. We nevertheless see impacts still coming our way that makes us a
bit more prudent. We see that the man-made claims activities at least what we expect will
come back to normal, that's one aspect.
Secondly, the economic downturn due to the pandemic will have an impact on our credit &
surety book, this is also a factor that we have to take into consideration. Thirdly, we are
investing into business, we are investing into growth and I'll talk about a few areas a bit
later. Those investments are initial costs, the ramp up costs and they go against a
contracted net premium earned base, because of the pruning of the portfolio. So it is
revenue-generating. It's a positive growth, that this is those investments that we have to
factor in and additional reinsurance protection as also mentioned.
One aspect that is not mentioned here, and you have asked it in your Q&As is the
elipsLife portfolio. This is not factored in the numbers here yet, but for 2021, it's included
into our business. So if you take all of these aspects together, we feel comfortable to be
at 98% or better. That's what we lay out for the 2021 outlook. The good news is that when
we decided the pruning, we will obviously -- the intent was really to rebalance our
portfolio, on the one hand on the geographical side and on the other hand on the product
split. So if you look at the geographical side, you see definitely a decrease in the North
American share from 54% to 48%, and North America's share is mainly U.S.
Canada is the one very profitable market, and we're very happy with our position there,
it's growing. But U.S. obviously, we have to do some de-risking, in particular, on the U.S.
casualty side. You see that EMEA grew from 22% to 26% in the mix, this is intended
growth and that was exactly the rebalancing of the portfolio that we wanted to see and
we continue to grow in this market and we will see it also with the weight increases that
are very pronounced in EMEA, in particular, and also in the property line of business.
Page 48 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Just the word on Latin America. As America is going down here, Latin America started a
bit later with the turnaround program. And the rate increases that you see in Latin America
are not as pronounced as in other markets, so there is a time lag here. So only now you
see really the rate increases coming through also in Latin America. So we expect Latin
America to be much stronger going forward and it's a market that we have a great
interest in.
Now on the product split, you see very clearly we're growing where we want to grow,
30% to 40% increase in the share of our portfolio in property. And remember in property,
we have included the event cancellation, so all the pruning is already factored in, so 40%
of the total share in property is very healthy, that's what we like. We also look at other
lines of businesses like credit & surety, where we see then that the cycle management is
working. So we already noticed in 2019 that we were in a downward cycle. In Q3 2019, we
started to reduce the exposures and to capacity in credit & surety. And now this is the line
of business that we're watching very closely, in particular, in the context of the economic
downturn. But also, we will definitely see a moment when we're ready to benefit from the
growth in this market. We're very strong and the teams are waiting and managing this
cycle management very well here.
So this is the portfolio side. On the right-hand side on the top, you see that the gross
written premium that we lost is not significant, because it was counterbalanced by the
price increases. So that's the good news here, so price increases we factored in, but not
to the extent that we could actually get it through in the market. And on the lower right,
you see that on the net exposure, we have been very prudent. We're protecting our
balance sheet here by reducing our net share on the risk and here you can see to what
degree. So overall, we feel that we are very well-positioned in this market, our capital
allocation is going in the right direction in the right portfolios and this is the positive news.
Now how can we ensure that we're not falling into the commodity trap again of a future
software [ph] cycle, and address the unprofitability in this market. It's on the left-hand
side, the technical excellence and on the right-hand side is the cost element. So both
parts of the combined ratio we're addressing. Costing accuracy, reserving accuracy,
profitability, those elements are key. Remember, Thierry already mentioned it, technical
excellence, and here you can see it live in action. CorSo, we have a systematic steering
and performance management framework called CorSo Smart Circle, and this here is
really addressing closing the loophole elements addressing the costing and the
underwriting and resting the claims and the reserving side. And most importantly, on a
quarterly basis, we look at all the trends and we look at costing gaps and as soon as we
identify them, it goes into the costing tools into the underwriting behaviour and then we
get to close the loop again and this is a continuous circle, so that we avoid falling into that
from a commoditised gap trap again in this market.
Now I have to say, this is all based on state-of-the-art data modeling. Yes, we have
created the analytical data model for the CorSo portfolio. This is the single version of truth
leveraging the group with the Stargate program, and this is a treasury data lake that we
use with very clear analytics that EVA's decision, informed decision-making on data.

Page 49 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

On the right-hand side, you can see that we have strengthened our cost discipline in the
company. We have addressed the organisational structure with delay at the organisation.
We looked at the footprint and we looked at improving our underwriting processes to
increase the productivity. We're using state-of-the-art infrastructure. And we're also
looking at the operating model. As I mentioned before, we've got the Chief Underwriting
Officer standard, and there's the area where we look at the small tickets, the small
average premiums policy are going through this more standard, automated or semiautomated way of underwriting. The expense ratio has improved by 2%, and this is a very
good sign as I'm not hiding that we want to improve it further. We need to improve it, in
particular, as we have heard underwriting margin is key in the low interest rate
environment. So you will see more efforts and this is a continuous expense management
exercise, it's not a cost cutting, it's an expense management exercise where we want to
improve.

Bloomberg Transcript

$120 million or more than $120 million gross savings we've achieved. Obviously, we also
have then used some of it to reinvest into our business. We were talking about rate
increases and hardening of markets and here you can see how the situation looked like at
CorSo. So you see the compound price quality increase and we also laid out the -separately the property increase. This is a very, very interesting one. You can see that in
the CorSo portfolio, we have a much more pronounced rate increase in comparison to
some of our peers, because we are very much operating in the large corporate end of
the market, where the rate increases were much more severe or steeper than in other
markets.
We still believe that there will be upward pressure on rates and that will continue. And we
see this not only through loss inflation, but also the low yield environment as we said, and
also in total, the whole COVID market environment is supporting this rate upward
pressure. We're using this for opportunity to grow to. We have now agreed on a business
case and we're implementing it as we speak to grow in property. Yes, so we receive so
many submissions, asked for capacity and good quality capacity that we couldn't work on
it anymore. So we're hiring more than 30 people just in EMEA to address this growth
opportunity. Now is the opportunity, now is the window that's open and recapturing this
growth and we're very well-positioned to do so and increase our technical margin.
Primary Lead initiatives and proposition, you have heard many times in many years about
this, this is something that started quite early already, and here you can see that we
started from an excess and follow business and the 20% lead business, we started with in
2014, have increased to 45%, and we see it increasing in our plans to more than 50%
going forward. This is an area, the sweet spot, where you feel comfortable with. And here
on the right-hand side, you can see three initiatives that are part of our growth initiative.
Let me single out the middle one, the captive solutions, because in particular with the
hardening of the market, the customers are looking for capacity. They can't fill their
capacity gaps enough anymore and the rate increases -- increased their budget
capabilities internally. So what are they doing? They're obviously looking at alternative risk
financing instruments. Captive solutions is a very strong instrument, high in demand at the
moment, and this is not geographically focused in one area, this is a global phenomenon.
We're extremely well-positioned with our innovative risk solutions team. We have added
Page 50 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

to the team. We have invested into a captive solutions team. And what the customers
want, they want obviously the structuring capability of a partner like Swiss Re Group
solutions.
But at the same time, they need the infrastructure for fronting, so that's why we also can
make use of our fronting capabilities, of our infrastructure, and of our technical platform
that is state-of-the-art. So fronting and captive solutions goes together and this forms the
international program. So on the top, you see international programs and the tradition
form, but in particular now in this market environment and particularly for captives, that's
quite important to note. And now in order to balance the portfolio to take the volatility out
and also to reduce the expense base, we have the standard proposition. So those three
elements we're focusing on and will put us in a position not only to excel now with the decommoditised core, but also in the future capture market opportunity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Innovation, innovation in particular, is pronounced in the area where we talk about
initiatives beyond risk transfer. The international program platform I have mentioned
already, this is something that we collaborate very closely with reinsurance, so our
reinsurance colleagues as part of solutions can offer it to their seamless customer base.
We have brokers who use it and we've got a very strong pipeline of customers who really
would like to have this fee-based business. This is very important, because we're
addressing an industry inefficiency. We had very clumsy, frictional processes, cost in the
process and this is something we can address and it has the potential to be one of the
standards in the market to administer international programs.
At the lower end, that's a very exciting, innovative thought and we're forward integrating
into our customer base to corporates and we're teaming up with corporates and
integrating into their products. Here with Hitachi, in particular, we have announced it. We're
forward integrating and integrating into their software maintenance program that they
offer to their end customers to machinery -- machine manufacturers, OEMs.The
interesting part here is that we are not working on historic underwriting data to do our
underwriting. Here we're using sensor-based, real-time information and offer protection
to Hitachi so that this is an integral part of their software program. It's not a standalone
insurance program as we know it traditionally.
Now all of that is leading to our position in the Swiss Re Group. We're using our longstanding years of relationships with those customers and opening them up to the Swiss
Re Group. Here you have three examples where we could open up 13 years of Microsoft
relationships on the primary corporate insurance side and open them up for the B2B2B
proposition with iptiQ and others. Daimler, we have with iptiQ that has announced a joint
venture. Ad Verily, that's an Alphabet company. We're working on the A&H space with P&I
was supporting us on the investment side. So this is more and more becoming an integral
part and important part of our group. We have created one specific unit. It's a corporate
partnership unit. The corporate partnership unit is reporting to me but not necessarily as a
CEO for corporate solutions but as the member of the Group Executive Committee,
because this is the entity that navigates the customer through Swiss Re and vice versa. It
helps Swiss Re to be much more effective in capturing those opportunities in the markets.

Page 51 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

In summary, we're becoming a specialised risk partner with deep capabilities and
selective lines of businesses and segments. We're confirming our target 98% or better, as
we said, this is the new part, and we're very confident that we're adding value also to the
group. Thank you very much. And I think we're going to the Q&As now.

FINAL

A - Thomas Bohun
So coming from RBC, Kamran. Please go ahead.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, good afternoon, everyone. Three questions. The first one is just around nat cat too. I
guess there's some indication that some secondary perils, especially, have increased your
expectation losses there. What do you think the outlook is for nat cap ratios? I know
you've kind of given us a steer on the overall combined, but what's the expectation
there? And the second question may be a longer-term question. When you think about
Swiss Re, I mean we've heard about One Swiss Re, you're moving people around the
business which I think makes for excellent kind of careers and kind of motivated staff
within the company, but what does that do to underwriting expertise? Do you think the
kind of career path need to change in that respect to develop kind of deeper expertise or
is there -- or was that kind of already (inaudible) through? Any kind of color on that would
be really very, very interesting. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Good. I'll take the first question, around expectations, around nat cat risk, Kamran. I think
from our perspective, we continue to view this risk as extremely attractive. I think as I
mentioned in my session, we sort of look at the performance, look at areas where we
feel we need to make adjustment. I mean so you mentioned some of the secondary
perils or the climatic perils, so those are things that we've looked at and said, okay, we
need to model them to -- with a greater degree of proficiency, and we then make
adjustments to the model, to the pricing, to the guidelines both in terms of the CapEx
sales or the aggregate contracts that we put in place. But we remain extremely
comfortable with nat cat risk. We feel we are one of the foremost experts in the entire
marketplace. And when we look at our A versus E, I think as Thierry mentioned, over the
long-term, it's point on, right? So there's nothing there that gives us a sense that we need
to worry more than we should, if anything at all we are deploying more capacity to the nat
cat space.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

And if I may just build on that, in climate change, we have been observing climate change
already since 10, 15 years and we thought about the impact it could have on some of our
major perils. And there wasn't really much movements, so what actually was new is that
we finally could observe the impact of what we think is climate change. We shouldn't
overestimate, however, the climate change impact as such, there have always been many
other things impacting the secondary perils and climate change as I tried to point out was
just one of the drivers. And again, we can adjust our models, it's our proprietary models.
We did adjust these models and because these covers are yearly renewable, we actually
can adjust very quickly for the new models to implement them. So if you're asking about

Page 52 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

the impacts on the combined ratio, we expect that to have a positive impact on the
combined ratio.
On the second one, on the career and I'll ask my colleagues to add if they wish. On
underwriting, it is really the soul of Swiss Re. It's -- I mean Swiss Re has always been for
more than 150 years an underwriting company, so it's certainly very attractive to be an
underwriter at Swiss Re as it is the core business of what we are doing. We have always
been able to attract excellent talents in Life & Healthy, in P&C, in the space. Of course, we
train them, we nurture them, they become experts, they become desirable in the eyes of
our competitors. So we do lose from time to time talents to competition or even to our
clients, that's the name of the game. But we continue to be attractive, we continue to
invest in our underwriting expertise and certainly talking of underwriting of the future, we
realised that there will be different skills required in addition to the traditional underwriting
skills more in the space of data analytics, for example, but also understanding technology
and that's the world becomes more and more connected, technology is also more of a
driver on the exposure side. So we will need people coming from those spaces much
more than in the past.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andreas Berger

{BIO 15171017 <GO>}

Hey, let me add to that and the One Swiss Re as you mentioned, Kamran, you're referring
to moving people around the organisation. And of course, there has been benefiting from
this by the way, yes, so we are a pretty fluid organisation where people moving from
asset management now to the Chief Operating Officer. But in the business, we have
started CorSo with reinsurance colleagues primarily. Over time now, we have to revisit the
situation, because we have to add more talent to the mix. And what we have done, we've
conducted a capability model exercise coming from who do we want to be in this market,
we want to be a market leader, a thought leader and first mover in the market.
So we needed to identify what are the capabilities that we need also for the future, for
the database, the database and technology-based solutions and find the right mix
between the traditional underwriting and then the underwriting of the future claims is the
same story, we had to add a lot of expertise, in particular, for the claims analytical piece.
So we recognise that we are becoming also very attractive in addition to the
attractiveness that we already had in the past, that's something that we saw in CorSo. We
have had tremendous intake of people and we did not only reduce the staff, yes, our net
was a 10% reduction, but we had a lot of intakes from external and this mix now is a much
healthier and much more resilient mix, in particular, when we talk about the challenges.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Yes. I think the only thing I'd just add is, I think the -- maybe to change the perception
slightly, we have far less people that moved in than you seem to indicate, right? So we
have a few people that moved here, but in the core in underwriting, in actuarial, in
business management, in claims and it is the professionals there, the career people in
that space and as is the case when you have people who are ambitious, some of the
population move but in the core, most of them do not move. I just wanted to reiterate
that point. Thank you.

Page 53 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Kamran. Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Hi, Andrew. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hello. Hi, there. I wonder if you could just give us an assessment of how you feel the
buffer in the casualty large corporate risk reserves have developed over the year? Or is it
hard to say because I presume new (inaudible) development had occurred because
obviously courts have been out of action. But maybe just give us an update, I guess from
Thierry on the status of the in-force reserves on the large corporate casualty?
Second question, there're reports in the trade press of Swiss Re providing capacity to a
new broker facility focused on property cat. I'm not asking you to comment on a specific
facility, but in principle, but why would the Swiss Re give its pen to a facility when you are
so focused on your own underwriting and your own value-add rather than giving it to a
blind facility? Thanks.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll take the first question, Andrew. So on the casualty reserve side, I'm afraid I will have to
defer to the February reserve announcements where we will talk about our reserves. So
you will hear more then, but we remain confident in our reserves, and of course, it is
around the reserves and in the best estimates that we establish. It's obviously an
environment that is a very dynamic one. So we are observing the space very closely, but
you will hear more in February.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Okay. Andrew, I'll take the second question which will remain nameless, and here I think
two things is why would we consider something of this sort when we do? For two reasons.
One, to access a group of customers that we don't access too today, we don't write
today. So it gives us access to the -- to those customers, that's one. The second would be
also because you do something like that. If you're quite clear and sure that it will not have
an impact on momentum in the market due to its size, which is why we would also do it.
And the third, I'm sure Thierry has a point here on profitability, on such things. Yes, Thierry.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Yes. So this is typically, Andrew, the type of business we would like to go into. Moses
mentioned it in his part, the smaller type segment, mid type segment, where we have
observed good margins over the years, and we had an excellent track record in the space
and we have an underweight position in the market. So also, from an underwriting
perspective either, it is very attractive and desirable to grow in that space.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Andrew. We Have James Shuck from Citigroup. Hi, James, go ahead.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}
Page 54 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Hi, good afternoon. I'm going to try with this question, but it might be a bit. But if I look
over the last three or four years, the reason why your profits haven't been strong is due
to abnormal nat cat, let's say. You did show a slide that shows over the longer term that
the nat cats were kind of coming out, where you would have modeled them to come out
too. My question is really is when you look back over those losses, and you think about
how you use data and the predictability within those models, when it comes to the nat
cats, how much of those are nat cats are actually predictable, the model as opposed to
just random chance, and how is that percentage, if you're able to tell me, how do you
think that percentage of predictability has increased over time? That's my first kind of
tricky question.
Secondly, I'm just intrigued to know about the strategic asset allocation. You haven't
updated this for many years now. You've obviously had the disposal of ReAssure
interesting though you have $21 billion of cash and cash equivalents in the context of $170
billion of assets. What should we be thinking about in terms of that asset allocation
particularly with the liquidity element over time, please?

A - Thomas Bohun
Okay. Thank you.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe on the asset allocation, we can take that offline as Guido Furer was here this
morning and then we can try to answer that after this meeting. But for the other question.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

So James, that we start with your question around nat cat. We have our proprietary
model. So and as I said, we have a high -- very high confidence into these models. We
model 180 different perils. And as I said, each event is a new learning point for us. So we
are not arrogant in believing in our models, telling us always the truth, and the models can
look 10 years out there, but our models have actually pulled them together with our
underwriting judgment and our capability to adjust the models every year again and put
them into the re-underwriting of our portfolio is very fast, that combination has actually
proven really valuable. You had a more precise question around how much actually is it
just waiting for something to happen and then increase prices and somewhat follow the
markets, and how much is really model-driven and how much is more experience driven.
And I think that's on the main perils. I can say with confidence that the majority of our price
costing is actually really coming from the models. They have a forward-looking view in the
models. So it's only partially what we observe every year that's going to influence
obviously more so over time our models.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe the only think I will add on I mean Thierry -- on Thierry's Slide, you could see it,
right? So if you look back and say, what was it that was maybe slightly different from what
we expected, it's mostly around the secondary perils. Bushfires in California or Australia,
flooding in elements like you have multiple events, an Olympic (inaudible) built in Japan
with the nat cat, which means that there are social inflation on costs as well, so some of
Page 55 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

these things are probably one or two of the learnings when you sort of look back, but I
think Thierry's comment on the models being accurate is something that I completely
agree with you.

FINAL

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, James. We have Vikram Gandhi from Societe Generale. Vikram, please go
ahead.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hello, good afternoon, everybody. Just one question from me. Looking at Slide 62, I'm
looking at how the expected nat cat budget versus expected premium has developed
and it -- I think the numbers imply that the expected loss ratio has improved from 57% in
2018 to 42% in 2020, if that's a right way to look at it, so that's about 15% risk adjusted
price improvement. So the question I really have is given that you are at 42% or about
70% to 73% on the combined, which doesn't certainly look like a skinny margin at all, how
much room for improvement is left from here on? And how much push can you give
towards the interest rate erosion since I think nat cat business is also quite less sensitive
interest at point because of its duration? So that's my only question. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Okay. I'll start and Thierry will say a few other things about this. I mean so, I don't think it's
the right way to look at it by just simply taking the expected nat cat project into the
expected nat cat premium and say that's the loss ratio that you expect because this is
across the different ways in which we also look at that. So that's one. The second is in
terms of your second question around the expectation for price movements in the
market, if indeed it's already at very attractive levels. I think all you have to do is go back
to I don't know which slide it is on Thierry's deck, which shows the nat cat index.
Overall, I think that's the first slide that Thierry used which was Slide 41. And I think you
look between 2011 and 2016, and see the rapid decline in price and in the marketplace, so
you don't get to 100% or 110% since there you stop, because we know we run through
cycles and those cycles -- the down cycles also tend to be relatively long. So when there's
pricing across the entire portfolio, you move to try and move the price to a point that
gives you rate adequacy and try and build an element of some margin, so that when
prices begin to come down you have some rooms, it's not every single year that you have
to make the adjustment. Thierry?

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Yes. There's not much I can add actually. I can add Moses to what you said, I fully agree
with that. I mean historically, and if I say, historic, I'm talking of the last 15 years, we had
periods with far higher price levels or price adequacy levels than we have today. So I
believe there is in theory a lot of room upwards. And it is actually very much a question of
demand and offers, so it is going to depend in my view on how quickly the offer on the
capital side is going to go into the reinsurance business.

Page 56 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

Right now, as you can see on the same slide Page 41, we have seen some stabilisation of
the capital in the reinsurance space which indicates some hesitation and my personal view
is that COVID-19 will probably prolong that for a little, maybe my hope rather than my
belief, we'd put on this for a while just given the uncertainty it creates.

FINAL

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Vikram. We have Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. Vinit go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. And so, I'll take two follow-ups given just on the Slide 62 again, if
you don't mind. The -- I mean, I'm just trying to understand how much of this is the loan
book and how much is the ACP business here in the $3.3 billion, and maybe that explains
some of the GAAP in the loss ratios you just talked about. So can you just comment a bit
more on how much is your own and how much is ACP? That's first question.
Second question is for Andreas. The -- we talk about international programs and I feel
many years ago maybe I was at another last commercial insurance company's Investor
Day and we heard about how international programs are linked to trade and how later on
that became an issue. I mean trade these days may or may not be very strong. How are
you comfortable in the economic uncertainty to push the international programs or maybe
the answer is that the large corporate seem to be faring better. So I'd be glad to hear
your thoughts on this? Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

So to your first question, Vinit, I think, Thierry and I are standing here looking at John
whether -- wondering whether we disclosed how much of that is ACP and John's in the
audience shaking his head, saying no, we don't which is what we thought the answer
would be, we do not disclose that unfortunately, Vinit. Andreas?

A - Andreas Berger

{BIO 15171017 <GO>}

Okay. So on the second question international program and how does the current
economic environment impact some of the future of international programs or whether
it's just large corporates that are asking for it. We see international programs actually
growing not only with large corporates in the context of capitals, we also see growing
now in the mid-market space. And you don't have to look at it from a global expansion
perspective, but also regional expansion perspective.
So you see European programs, you see programs slightly going beyond Europe in the
mid-market space. So we're very comfortable. It's a -- it's an area where you don't have a
lot of competition, it's probably maybe maximum of a handful who can do this and we
think that due to the -- and I see legacy and the clumsy processes and we are in a pole
position to benefit from the future, trends in this market, we can really address exactly
this problem which makes international programs potentially uneconomical if you
(inaudible) and expenses are growing.

Page 57 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

So I'm positive, that's what the numbers have shown and you were probably referring to
the supply chain topic and that's another area where we are very much focusing on to get
much more transparency in the supply chain, but that obviously is linked to the contingent
business interruption, business on the property side. But obviously also in international
programs, you will see it. But to say, programs -- international programs are very attractive
for us.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Vinit. We have Ed Morris from JPMorgan. Ed, please go ahead.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Oh. Hi, everyone. Thank you for taking my questions. First question is on casualty. I'm just
trying to understand a little bit more where you sort of see yourself in the general
management of this portfolio. On the one hand, you had a slide which showed that it's
really only a few portfolios in reinsurance that you think are below your economic profit
threshold. I think from one of the other slides we can infer that one of those is large
corporate risks, but just the broader casualty portfolio in light of the price changes that we
see, should we now expect that portfolio to stabilize or will it continue to shrink from
here? Just general thoughts around that would be helpful?
And second question, maybe just on Life & Health. In the comment earlier in the day, that
the COVID pandemic is almost like a nat cats on the Life & Health business. Obviously,
extremely unfortunate, but not beyond the realms of possibility. And I just wonder, if you
could talk a little bit about how you expect the market to react in terms of pricing on the
Life & Health side? So are there -- would you expect there to be changes to pricing for
Life & Health type products and similarly exclusions, et cetera? Is there a significant
change in the market likely to happen as a result of this? Thanks.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Thierry, maybe I'll start on casualty. So Ed, I think going into certainly 2021 for us in casualty,
I think you could see that right on Slide 60, if you take a combination of liability and motor
U.S. casualty, so I think it's super important to focus on the U.S. part. You see the arrows
pointing towards exposure is down, so our clear view here is with large corporate risk in
one or two other areas we feel, we need to reduce our share in that space, because we
also see that our market share is higher than what would be ideal. So we're overweight
the market and we will move towards market within the -- in the U.S.
In other parts of the world, in Europe, in Asia, we continue to -- we see pockets of
casualty that are attractive, even in the U.S., in the R&N space, and we would look to grow
that. In terms of the actions that we are taking, it would also be somewhat similar to
CorSo. I mean I think we're expecting measures we started already by the way, so it's not
new, it's not just 2021 action. We started as Thierry -- as chart showed you from '20 -- Q1
2019 and even before through 2021 and we would expect the majority of the actions to
be taken in 2021 that's left. Yes. Thierry?

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}
Page 58 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

Not much to add, Moses. I think that casualty is not just U.S. casualty, is also not just U.S.
general liability. So I think that we have been focused in rightsizing particularly the general
liability of large corporate risks. In the other areas, with all portfolios that we just needed
to adjust for price and again further away from the U.S. they have been pretty stable
portfolios where there's not much action to be taken. As an example, Asia, we feel very
comfortable and if it all we would actually love to growth that portfolio to have further. For
casualty, Andreas, do you want to add something?

A - Andreas Berger

{BIO 15171017 <GO>}

Nothing to add.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Then let me switch to Life & Health. Yes, indeed it's -- COVID is a pandemic, pandemic is - if you want the nat cat event in Life & Health. However, it's -- as we said, it was priced
into our models already. So I think I alluded to the fact that we therefore do not expect
drastic adjustments to the price. But certainly, we will push for higher for two reasons. One
is because of COVID and because of the losses that we have seen certainly, there will be
more fear in the markets, and therefore an opportunity to increase the prices and there
are the low interest rates will also need to be compensated followed by increases -sorry, increasing the prices.

A - Thomas Bohun

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Ed. We have Iain Pearce from Credit Suisse. Iain, Go ahead.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. First one is on the nat cat budget again. I'm just
wondering if you could talk a little bit around the sort of assumed lost cost increases in
terms of the increased frequency of events, more -- secondary peril, these sorts of
things, what's assumed in terms of that growth in 2017 to 2020, trying to understand
really the increase in severity versus the increase in exposure you've had there? And then
second one on the Slide 76. I might have misinterpreted this chart, but is this chart saying
that you are -- you have clients in one in three of the large corporate risks? So I'm just
trying to understand how if you're trying to reduce commoditization within the business
having that proportion of clients in the target market and then looking to grow that
number reduces commoditization rather than increases it as you're trying to do?

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Okay, Iain. I will take the nat cat part. So I -- when -- it is actually also a good line of
business because there are so many headlines created around it. And each time there is
a very large loss, it surprises people, it shocks people, there are big headlines, and so
there's also if you want, what we call, headline risk involved here. So our model is
obviously completely unimpacted by this. Our experts try to look through all these
emotions and really look at what actually is happening behind. And there we can say, also
in secondary perils, is actually the largest movements have not been in on the exposure
side. So climate change does have more of an impact on secondary perils than it has on

Page 59 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

some of the main perils, but that has not been the main driver for the increase in losses
we have seen.
So generally, the increase in losses are coming from more of the values that are actually
moving to those exposed areas, so more people moving to areas that are, for example,
exposed to secondary perils that obviously we see growing values in those area. And
then when climate change moves actually the perils upwards, it's a little bit like a tidal
wave, the moment it arises, and at that point in time, surprises everyone, also a little bit of
our models, but we can adjust for that actually quite quickly.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe on the second question, I mean the point we try to make here is, number one, we
are already operating in the large corporate market space. Remember, I said that we
were coming from the Excess & Follow position mainly. This is a very transactional market
trading relationships through brokers. What we try to say is that, the market is attractive.
Yes, but it's even more attractive, the closer you are to the risk. So here we're saying that
we -- the direct relationships that we have translate into an outperformance. And in
particular, when you have key account, managed accounts, not everybody will be a key
account, managed account. But if you have those, there definitely are in a retention ratio a
much higher than the traditional transactional business, the Excess & Follow business
because you're not so exchangeable so easily.
And secondly, you can really determine how the risk will be managed, as you are much
closer to the risk, and that's the message we wanted to send here. So large corporate is
an attractive market. We have addressed the unattractive part of the market, in particular,
on the U.S. casualty side, yes, so that was clearly an action point that we took. And this
improved the overall profitability of the U.S. based large corporates on the key account
management side as well.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Ian. We have Thomas Fossard from HSBC. Thomas, please go ahead.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks for taking my questions. Two questions for Andreas on the CorSo side. The
first thing is on the combined ratio for 2021. It looks like you're pretty comfortable with
98%, but still remaining cautious for the reasons you've explained. But let me try and what
would be your rational goal in terms of combined ratio, maybe on three to five years view
with how you are willing to have the book in terms of risk? What would be the (inaudible)
in terms of long-term combined ratio? Maybe that would be an easy one to answer rather
than (inaudible) looking for 2021 combined ratio target.
And the second question will be, I'm just trying to better understand -- as an example of
your partnership, you've highlighted Verily. I'm just trying to better understand what CorSo
is bringing to the table in this partnership? Maybe you can shed a bit more lines on this?
Thank you.

Page 60 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

A - Andreas Berger

{BIO 15171017 <GO>}

Yes. I hope I understood the second one, because the line was not very good but I'll
come to it now in the second. So the combined ratio, look here, I find -- it feels like I'm
discussing with our CFO, John Dacey, who is asking today the same question. Now, look,
we are pretty granular in our work, when we went through the pruning, when we look at
rate increases and how that's earning through on a U.S. GAAP basis. So we know actually
pretty well where we end up, and we know the aspects and I've mentioned four of it. Now
elipsLife is the fifth element that came to the party. So we're pretty transparent internally,
but we can't neglect the uncertainty in the market.
So what we said to ourselves look, let's see how the renewals go this year, and we will
come up with the year end to results, and then in February, we know more. And I think you
will probably be in a situation again to ask the question and maybe you get a clearer
answer from me. But I think we feel very comfortable here. We don't think we are overly
conservative. We want to be as realistic as possible. Obviously, we wish to be better.
That's why we said we're not sticking to the 98%, we say 98% or better. Yes, so I think
that should give you a clear indication that we always try to find very hard to improve it.
The second one on the partnership side. I hope I understood. Your question was probably
if we can -- if CorSo can -- what CorSo can contribute --

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

What does CorSo bring to the partnerships?

A - Andreas Berger

{BIO 15171017 <GO>}

What does CorSo bring to the partnerships, yes. I mean you just have to imagine. Yes,
those are large corporates, and usually, we don't have on a day-to-day basis contact to
them. So what CorSo does through their normal trading relationships over 13 years to
provide parametric solutions to companies, for instance, like Microsoft. There is an
established relationship with those corporates and that deepens obviously over time. And
as it deepens then you understand, what are the needs that those corporates have either
closer to their core, for instance, like a Daimler as an OEM or a Verily in new spaces,
where they suddenly bring in that data analytics capabilities and then look for a risk insides
partnership and that's where CorSo can join. And if there's need to bring in other parts,
meaning the best of Swiss Re to the party like iptiQ with their platforms on a B2B2C basis,
then that's the entry point orchestrated by this corporate partnership unit.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you, Thomas. We have Paris Hadjiantonis from Exane BNP Paribas. Please go ahead,
Paris.

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, from my side. I hope everyone is keeping well. Two questions. Firstly, on Life Re
and the comment around pre-2004 U.S. business. Obviously, this is not something new.
So I'm just trying to understand, are you seeing any adverse development there? Or are
Page 61 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

you just trying to remind us that this is a drag on earnings currently? And then as it goes
our way, you are more optimistic about the future. And then secondly, it's probably too
early to ask this question, but I will go ahead anyway. So as you transition from U.S. GAAP
to IFRS, how do you think about impact from reserving there? I mean, previously you were
taking probably a more best estimate you versus some of your European peers, and U.S.
GAAP was always part of the explanation. Now going forward, how do you think about
reserving, and I'm also trying -- maybe I'm thinking too much into this, but I'm trying to
square the comments that here you got about reducing volatility? So is changes in
reserving part of the way, you can't reduce volatility? Thank you.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Paris, in pre-2004, no, we're not trying to give you any sort of a warning signals that it's
getting any worse. If anything at all it's the opposite, right? What we try to tell you is that in
2023, there's a crossover for certain tasks of the portfolio, which is significant from the
pre-2004. And as a result of that, the earnings drag that we see would be significantly
less. So that's more the message that we try to give, not that it's worse. And on the
reserving question, John Dacey's in the audience. He is winking at me saying, you're too
early with the question. But let's see whether Thierry wants to answer to it.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

I think we very much like the question, Paris. But if you find we prefer to defer to later on
this question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you very much. We take one last question from Ivan Bokhmat from Barclays.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Hi, good afternoon. A few questions from me, please. So first one maybe to Moses. On
Life & Health slide and you've indicated that you might be below 10% ROE hurdle in 2022
as well. I'm just trying to understand the drivers behind that? Wondering if there's any
carryover from COVID or the disability mentioned that you've made or just purely lower
interest rates?
The second question, it's on the P&C side. Just ahead of 1/1 renewals, you mentioned that
there is more demands for reinsurance solutions. But thinking about your core business,
we obviously know primary rates are rising. So there possibly would be slightly higher
retentions at the (inaudible) level, and of course, the economy is not in the great shape.
So I'm just wondering, what's happening with the demand for the underlying business?
And maybe if I could squeeze in the final question just about the 2021 guidance of 96% or
better. Why wait until February? I think most of the book has already been written for what
you're going to earn in 2021. So maybe you could just tell us what's the range of
outcomes that we could raise us all for? Thanks.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Page 62 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

Okay. So Ivan, I'll try and go through those rapidly. So on the Life & Health, '22 below 10%,
no. I mean, I think what I said is, we expect to continue to deliver between 10% and 12%. I
think the arrow just shows you naturally, if you say 10% to 12%, yes, there is a chance that
you may be slightly below, but we expect for '21 and '22 to be on the lower end of the
10% to 12%, not below 10%. And from '23, when the drag disappears, we expect it to -we expect that to go up.
On the '21, why not make a commitment now below 96%. The reality I think as Christian
mentioned to you in '21, you earn half of the business you wrote in 2020 and half of the
business you wrote in 2021. In January, where we write a significant proportion of the
business, we write in '21, we get a sense of the portfolio mix, which gives us a far greater
sense of the accuracy of the prediction that we will need to make around what the
combined duration would look like for P&C. And since I'm a bit of a scatterbrain, I can't
remember your second question. So my friend here Thierry will take it.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Yes. It was Moses -- it's maybe for you still, it was around the demand, whether clients
confidence in the higher prices actually would rather increase their retentions.

A - Moses Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

It's for you, because it's on Slide 44, it's your session.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

I will take it. So, I think that anecdotal evidence is for clients to retain more, but the vast
majority of what we're seeing is demand for more protection across the board, across
the lines of business. So demand is up very clearly. And as I said, the offer is not yet at
least catching up with that one. Again, add to that the uncertainty of COVID and the
environment it creates, I do not expect that to return too quickly.

A - Thomas Bohun
Thank you very much Thierry, Moses and Andreas. Thank you for the questions. We will
now end the Q&A. And to close the day, we hand back to Christian Mumenthaler.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

So thank you, Thomas. Thanks everyone. I have the honor to close this Investor Day, just
repeating some of the key messages which hopefully came through relatively clearly
through the day. So it's about the strong balance sheet, we feel extremely comfortable
with where we are with the balance sheet. It definitely also helps us to position us for
growth. As you have heard, I think we're all positive on the growth opportunities next year,
but I also said that margin is more important than growth. So we think it's going to be
possible that both, but the priority will be on the margin.
Consequently, I think both P&C business, we've given some targets or some slight
updates today. So P&C Re, we believe can be 96% combined ratio or lower, CorSo 98%
or lower, hoping we're going be able to beat that but only there's some factors that
Page 63 of 64



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-11-20

FINAL

might make it more difficult, which is why we remain cautious and we stick with these two
figures here.
Life & Health is going to be about growing on one hand, continue the trajectory we have,
but also manage the in-force, which is super important in Life & Health. On iptiQ, we
intend to continue the strong growth trajectory, hopefully add further value to this
particular business. The investment portfolio, we think is extremely well positioned.
Hopefully, you got the sense from Guido earlier today of how we're positioned and also
the flexibility and possibilities and options we have going forward since we have de-risked
quite substantially due to the sale of ReAssure to Phoenix.
In terms of capital management priorities, it remains -- they remain always the same, the
first two are having a strong balance sheet, which clearly is the case, but also to make
sure we have a stable or increasing dividends, that remains the same. And then hopefully,
at least you got a little glimpse around the long-term investments we're doing. As I said
this morning, I think it's important to repeat it in times like that, there's always a risk of
focusing just on the short-term and yet we think there's also some significant long-term
changes and long-term opportunities and so be assured that we'll continue to invest also
in the long-term.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that, I thank you very much for your patience for staying so long. I hope this format
works for you. Please stay healthy and safe, and I hope that next time for the Investor Day,
we will be able to all have you here physically with us. Thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 64 of 64

