Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

Q1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jan Willem Weidema, Head of Investor Relations
Matt Rider, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh
Andrew Baker
Benoit Petrarque
David Motemaden
Farooq Hanif
Fulin Liang
Johnny Vo
Nick Holmes
Robin van den Broek

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Aegon Q1 2020 Results Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to
Mr.Weidema. Please go ahead, sir.

Jan Willem Weidema

{BIO 15133400 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining this conference call
regarding Aegon's first quarter 2020 update. We would appreciate it if you could take a
moment to review our disclaimer on forward-looking statements, which you can find at
the back of the presentation. Given the unprecedented impacts of the COVID-19 crisis,
our CFO, Matt Rider, will give you an update on our financial performance and capital
position for the first quarter of 2020. At the end of the presentation, we will of course
leave more than sufficient time for your questions.
I now hand it over to Matt.

Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Thanks Jan Willem and good morning everyone. Thank you all for your continued interest
in Aegon and for joining us on today's call. Due to the unprecedented situation caused by
Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

COVID-19, we consider it important to provide you with an update on our first quarter
financials.
Before we start with that, I would like to take the opportunity on the next slide to share
with you our response to the pandemic, which has clearly changed the world as we know
it. We are acutely aware of the disruption, fear and pain that this outbreak has caused for
so many, our employees, our customers and for people in the communities in which we
operate.
Our number one priority is to protect the health, safety and security of all our
stakeholders. We are dealing with extraordinary circumstances, and I'm pleased to say
that our resilience, experience and business continuity plans have enabled us to serve our
customers at a high level. Our purpose to help our customers achieve lifetime of financial
security remains the same. We believe we are well positioned to manage through this
difficult period. We have introduced a global framework to protect the health and safety
of all our employees. It is important to keep our staff engaged and motivated. Most of our
staff in the US and Europe are currently working from home. In China, the majority of our
staff has returned to the office.
To ensure that our services can continue uninterrupted, various solutions have been
implemented. For example, call center staff can answer calls from home, and we have
enhanced our capability to digitally interact with customers. This has been done while
abiding by the same high standards regarding cybersecurity to which we always hold
ourselves. We are also working closely with our critical outsourcing partners to avoid
disruption in our operations so that we can continue to serve our customers. We are
offering information and guidance on, for example, travel and medical insurance to
affected customers. For those customers facing overwhelming financial challenges, we
are providing financial relief on a case-by-case basis.
For example, we are offering flexibility on mortgage payments in Netherlands and fee
waivers on withdrawals from retirement plans in the United States. And last but not least,
we are supporting the communities in which we operate as we can only overcome this
crisis together. We have donated medical supplies and food to the elderly and supplied
protective gear to frontline healthcare workers. Furthermore, the Aegon Transamerica
Foundation made a donation to direct relief to support their ongoing relief efforts during
this pandemic.
With this, I'd like to now turn to the next slide. Today, I'm going to talk about 3 topics;
Aegon's financial performance for the first quarter 2020, our capital position and the
management actions we are taking to deal with the current uncertainty. The COVID-19
pandemic led to volatile financial markets and to even lower interest rates in all of
Aegon's markets, which resulted in negative impacts on underlying earnings. Adverse
claims experience related to COVID-19 was limited in the first quarter.
Life sales and net deposits were also largely unaffected in the first quarter as lockdowns
in many of our markets were only put in place in the second half of March. In coming
months, we expect those sales that depend on face-to-face contact to be impacted

Page 2 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

negatively. Furthermore, we will also likely see some of our customers tapping into their
pension savings forced by the current circumstances. Our capital position remains solid
and with the group Solvency II ratio of 208% above the target range. Capital ratios of the
US, the Netherlands and UK operations are all above the bottom end of their respective
target zones. Holding excess cash remains in our target range and we're maintaining
more than adequate liquidity buffers. This together with several management actions that
we have taken to protect the value of the balance sheet, provide the stability that is so
important in this crisis.
At this time, it is difficult to provide an update on our medium-term targets due to the
uncertainty around how the pandemic will play out and the continued economic impact
that it will have. However, we believe that the effects of the COVID-19 crisis will have a
material impact on our results in 2020, although the impact is uncertain at this stage. In
light of the extraordinary circumstances, it is very unlikely that we will reach our annual 10%
return on equity target in 2020. Let us turn to Aegon's financial results for first quarter on
the following slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 4, you see the group is reporting net income of EUR1.3 billion, and underlying
earnings before tax of EUR366 million. Underlying earnings in the UK, the Netherlands,
asset management and in our international businesses held up well. Asset management,
in particular, benefited from performance fees from Aegon Asset Management joint
venture in China. In the US, underlying earnings were negatively impacted by an intangible
adjustment of EUR37 million as a result of significantly lower interest rates. We also
observed adverse mortality concentrated in March with an impact of EUR62 million.
This was mainly driven by higher frequency of large claims at older ages in the universal
life and traditional life business, even after adjusting for normal seasonality. Long-term
care benefited from increased claims terminations. Majority of claims terminations in longterm care and mortality experience in life can't be attributed to the COVID-19 disease.
Retirement plans earnings are under pressure from lower fees resulted from lower
average asset balances.
We also saw an adverse impact due to increased market volatility, for example, from
transfers of assets from off-balance equity type to general account investments. Earnings
in variable annuities were impacted by higher reserves as account values became less
than the guarantees, primarily from the significant decline in interest rates and equity
markets in March. Fair value items amounted to a gain of EUR1.4 billion as losses in the US
were more than offset by gains in the Netherlands. In the US, our hedge programs
worked well and were highly effective.
The macro hedge protected Transamerica's RBC ratio and generated a better than
expected result from put options as increased implied volatilities were reflected in option
prices. The variable annuity dynamic hedge program and index universal life hedges were
also highly effective. However, market volatility and unhedged risks led to negative
impacts as did the underperformance of alternative investments.

Page 3 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

In total, U.S. reported EUR660 million of fair value losses. In the Netherlands, we saw a
large positive contribution from the impact of credit spread widening on the valuation of
our liabilities, which resulted in a benefit of EUR1.1 billion related to the liability adequacy
test. In addition, the interest rate hedges performed well and contributed another
EUR800 million.
I now turn to Slide 5. The group's solvency ratio increased to 208% during the first quarter
and remains above the top end of the target range of 200%. This increase was primarily
due to normalized capital generation and on balance the positive impact from market
movements in the first quarter. The significant negative overall impact from lower equity
markets and low interest rates in the US were more than offset by significant positive
impact of the increased EIOPA volatility adjustment on the Solvency II ratio of the
Netherlands.
We would like to also provide an estimate of the group solvency ratio per the end of April
in light of the current market volatility. We estimate group solvency ratio of between 190%
and 200%. The estimated decrease since March is mainly driven by the impact of a lower
EIOPA VA, this more than offsets a higher RBC ratio in the US, resulting from credit spread
tightening and higher equity markets. In the first quarter, normalized capital generation
after holding and funding expenses amounted to EUR311 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the US, normalized capital generation suffered from adverse mortality results.
Netherlands had strong capital generation supported by a realized gain on our Dutch
mortgage servicing business from an intercompany sale.
Let me now move back to solvency and discuss our main units. As Slide 6 shows, all our
main units are above the bottom end of their respective target ranges despite the
significant market movements of the first quarter triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. In
the US, the RBC ratio decreased to 376%. Falling interest rates in equity markets were the
primary drivers.
Furthermore, 10 percentage points decrease of the RBC ratio resulted from widening
credit spreads on unhedged credit risk in the variable annuity book. Another 6 percentage
point decrease resulted from defaults and credit migration. The impact of these adverse
market movements was amplified by the partial lack of a tax offset. Severity of the first
quarter market movements led to inadmissibility of certain deferred tax assets in the US.
The RBC ratio has strengthen since and is estimated to be between 390% and 400% at
the end of April. This increase since the end of the first quarter is driven by a partial
reversion of the impact from untargeted risks and higher equity markets.
In the Netherlands, the Solvency II ratio improved markedly from 171% to 249%. This was
mainly driven by the significant increase of the EIOPA volatility adjustment during the
quarter. Together with the positive impact from widening credit spreads on the own
employee pension scheme, this more than offset the negative market impacts from
widening credit spreads and mortgage spreads on asset values. Significant increase of
the Solvency II ratio again demonstrates the sensitivity of our Dutch business to credit
spreads.

Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

The record high level of EIOPA VA, 46 basis points has increased the ratio at the end of
March. If we would apply an EIOPA VA of say 15 basis points, this would lead to a ratio of
194% for the Dutch business for the end of March. The group Solvency II ratio on that
same basis would have been 187% instead of the reported 208%.
In the UK, the Solvency II ratio increased to 160% for the end of the quarter. The increase
was driven by normalized capital generation, market variance on balance also had a
positive impact on the ratio. Negative impacts from lower interest rates in equity markets
were more than offset by the positive impact of widening credit spreads on the valuation
of the own employee pension scheme.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now take you to the next slide and zoom in on hedging and other management
actions. We are taking several steps to protect the economic value of Aegon's balance
sheet and the current crisis as outlined on Slide 7. As already mention, the hedge
programs have performed well. At the end of the first quarter, we have rebalanced the
macro equity hedge in the US to increase downside protection while controlling hedging
costs. Macro equity hedge has now changed emphasis from tail projection toward a more
linear protection. It still has a target to protect the RBC ratio decline. In case of 25%
downturn in the equity markets in the quarter, the decline in the RBC ratio is limited to
25%. The protection between an equity market downturn between 0% and 25% is now a
bit more linear.
We're satisfied with our current asset allocation and have, therefore, not taken any major
actions to shift the allocation in recent weeks. However, we do capture the opportunities
that this situation offers and our focus on our reinvestments on corporate bonds, new
issuance did benefit from higher spreads. We focused reinvestments on higher credit -higher-rated credit and in industry areas less affected by the COVID-19 crisis. We are
monitoring crisis-affected asset classes closely. In the underwriting and pricing areas, we
have repriced the variable annuity products as of May 1st, which leads to lower withdrawal
rates and lower guarantees, and therefore, leads to better economics.
This was followed by the first new variable annuity product launch on TCS' BaNCS
platform. This product features principal protection and customers benefit from upside
potential, which makes this product well suited for the current markets. Furthermore, we
have adjusted some specific underwriting requirement to further protect our balance
sheet.
For example, we currently restrict coverage for new policies for certain age groups,
postponed coverages for customers with confirmed COVID-19 exposure in the US and
have adjusted underwriting criteria in travel and income protection in the Netherlands.
Coverage [ph] that was in place prior to the COVID-19 outbreak will obviously be
honored.
Next to this we have implemented several capital preservation measures. We're currently
limiting project and discretionary spend as far as possible to preserve earnings and capital
generation. At Transamerica, we are planning for the merger of two of our largest U.S.
legal entities, TLIC and TPLIC in the second half of the year. This will further streamline our

Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

legal entity structure and improve the sufficiency of asset adequacy testing. We will further
observe how the current situation develops over time and will take further measures that
we deem appropriate.
Let me now turn to Slide 8 to give you some more insight into our US asset portfolio. On
this slide, you see the asset allocation of the US general account in comparison with
industry data from 20 of our US peers. In general, Aegon's US general account is a liquid,
well-diversified investment portfolio.
First of all, please note that we are currently holding significantly more cash in comparison
to the industry as a whole. Especially considering the COVID-19 pandemic impacts, it's
important to maintain strong liquidity positions across our operations. Aegon US holds
only a small equity position, about half of the position is common equity and the other half
were convertibles and preferred stock. More than half of the commercial mortgage loan
portfolio is invested in multifamily real estate loans, which are less affected by the current
crisis.

Bloomberg Transcript

Another fifth of this portfolio is allocated to commercial real properties, which are skewed
toward high-quality grocery-anchored centers. Overall loan-to-value ratio is below 70% for
99% of the portfolio, and there is no loan with an LTV ratio above 90%. The US fixed
income portfolio is invested in government bonds, high-quality MBS and ABS securities
and about two-thirds in corporate bonds. CLOs only represent a small fraction of our
investments. Let me give you some more detail on the fixed income and corporate bond
portfolios on the next two slides.
Slide 9 gives you a breakdown of the US fixed income security portfolio by rating and by
NAIC class. The NAIC class determines the capital charge for credit risk. Securities are
downgraded. This credit migration will increase required capital. As you can see that the
portfolio is weighted toward investment-grade bonds, as only 7.5% have a below
investment-grade rating and less than 6% are allocated to the riskier NAIC classes, which
attract more heavy capital weighting. Of the BBB rated securities, only about 20% are
rated BBB minus. Please note that the mortgage-backed securities are modeled
individually by the NAIC and a class is assigned based on the expected loss according to
these models.
This is independent from the rating from rating agencies. Securities without an expected
loss in the modeled scenarios are assigned Class 1. 97% of all mortgage-backed securities
in our portfolio are included in Class 1. From this, you can deduct the impact of potential
rating migrations on the RBC ratio. We provide two model calculations for hypothetical
scenarios on the slide. For example, if 50% of the BBB minus rated bonds would be
downgraded by one notch and one NAIC class, you would expect an impact of about 12
percentage points on the RBC ratio. It is clear that certain industry sectors will be hit more
severely in this crisis than others.
To provide some insight, let me zoom in closer on the corporate bond portfolio on the
next slide. Aegon US holds a corporate bond portfolio of EUR37 billion. Of this, about 7%

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

is in below investment-grade bonds and about 10% are rated BBB minus. However, in this
COVID-19 crisis, not all industry sectors and subsectors are being equally affected.
On the right-hand side of the slide, we highlight our exposure to three industry sectors,
which might see more severe impacts in the coming months. Transportation sector is
suffering in the current situation, especially airlines. Our investments in the transportation
sector focus on BBB and above rated bonds, and our exposure to airlines is less than
$200 million.
In consumer cyclicals, our below investment-grade exposure is limited and 75% of our
exposure is the automotive, retail and consumer services. Our energy exposure is well
diversified across the oil and gas industry. About half our exposure is the midstream, a
part of the value chain that is more resilient to low oil prices. As with all sectors under
stress from the current crisis, we are monitoring our exposures very closely. Currently, we
have seen very little by way of impairments in our portfolio, but we are well aware that
this is likely to change in the coming months.
Let me conclude my presentation with the next and final slide. The COVID-19 pandemic
brings about unprecedented disruption to our customers, employees and the
communities in which we operate. In this challenging situation, our focus is on maintaining
a solid capital position and strong balance sheet. With the group solvency ratio of 208%
and the three main units above the bottom end of their respective target zones, we have
a good starting position. Holding excess cash of EUR1.4 billion and ample liquidity in the
units provides us the financial flexibility and strength to maneuver through the crisis. That
said, it is very unlikely that we will meet the annual return on equity target of more than
10% this year, given that our first quarter return on equity was 7%.
Nevertheless, our commitment to achieve the target once markets normalize is
unchanged. Given the global macroeconomic uncertainties, it is currently too early to tell
what the impact of COVID-19 pandemic will be on the other medium-term targets. Shortterm normalize capital generation will be negatively impacted by adverse market
movements and higher mortality rates, but we'll benefit from management actions and
lower expected new business strain. We are committed to review opportunities for
returning capital to our shareholders as soon as appropriate and will take a decision on
the interim dividend in August.
In the meantime, we will focus on securing the planned remittances to the group. Let me
close by saying that I am pleased that our resilience, experience and business continuity
plans have enabled us to operate at a high level. This allows us to focus on taking right
management actions to position the company strongly as we emerge from the COVID-19
crisis to ensure the best possible outcome for our shareholders and customers.
I am happy now to take your questions.

Questions And Answers

Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

Operator
(Question And Answer)

FINAL

Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from Farooq
Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

Hi, there. Good morning, everybody. Just firstly, on the U.S. capital position. Clearly, it's
recovered in April, but there are headwinds from potential downgrade, impairments, et
cetera? At what level of capital position, would you be worried about being able to remit
capital from the U.S. to the holding? And how likely do you think given what you've seen
so far in 2Q, that could be a reasonable risk? That's question one. Question two is, if you
make a decision -- I mean, clearly, you're not paying a full year '19 dividend. To what
extent do you think that surplus capital could be used to support capital in the
subsidiaries? And would you consider -- I mean are you considering using that extra
surplus capital to inject back into the subsidiaries? And then lastly, on sales impact. Could
you give an early read on what's happening in 2Q? Thank you.

A - Matt Rider

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Thanks for your questions, Farooq. I would just -- so on the U.S. capital position, I would
just remind you that according to our own capital management policy, as long as the U.S.
RBC ratio would be above 350%, then it would be expected to remit its normal planned
dividend. And I think that's pretty much all I would say about it right now other than maybe
to say that the -- so the normal remittance pattern for the U.S. would be pay half their
normal remittance in June and the other half in December. Probably too early to tell about
December, but the June dividend to the group, unless something crazier happens in the
markets, we would expect to receive. So that, I think, is the U.S. capital position.
With respect to the 2019 final dividend, I think what we've said here is that we would look
for opportunities to return that capital to shareholders at the earliest possible
convenience. But we are going to wait to see how the COVID-19 crisis plays out. So as I
said in the overall presentation, we would make a decision on the interim dividend in
August of this year. And at the same time, we would obviously have thoughts on how we
might -- or what we might be doing with the 2019 dividend. But for right now, as you know,
we have foregone it, but we have to look for ways to return that as quickly as possible.
Also recognizing, as you mentioned, that we don't know how this is going to play out,
particularly in the credit markets in the U.S. and also with respect to the mortality.
On the sales side, the first quarter sales that we reported were not so much affected by
the pandemic crisis just because the lockdowns really didn't happen until the middle of
March. But we are going to see impacts. We are going to see them in 2Q. Face-to-face
sales in the U.S. are going to be negatively impacted. We've already seen negative
impacts from sales in the high net worth business in -- in Hong Kong. I would say on -- for
example, on retirement plans business, it's a bit of a mixed bag in that you're seeing that
companies are not placing a super high priority on replacing their pension plan
administrators. So it's going to be tougher to win contracts that are not out for RFP. But by
Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

the same token, you're not going to lose as many because, obviously, you're not getting
approached by other companies where they -- from companies that are our existing
customers. So we are seeing negative sales impacts. What we -- we are encouraged a bit
by some of the ways that, particularly, I would say, in the U.S. and in China, asset
management as well, have adapted their business models to more digital interactions
with customers. But there are -- there's no way to avoid it. There are going to be negative
impacts on sales, and it's mainly going to come from normally face-to-face type of sales.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Great. Thanks.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca Bank.
Please go ahead.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Matt. Just coming back on the RBC ratio in
the U.S. I mean I think your commentary would suggest that since the end of March, there
is some improvement you have, I think, still the San Francisco building coming through. You
mentioned the TLIC mergers within your variable annuity business. So if you would give a
pro forma indication of that RBC ratio, where do you think that would sit? And what does
the impact be on clearing of captive structures within the organization in the U.S.? That's
the first question.
Secondly, when it comes to your dividend policy, it is linked to normalized capital
generation as it stands. However, I think in normalized capital generation, you are
assuming only a 20 basis point impact on cost of risk. Well, during the global financial
crisis, your cost of risk was more around 100 basis points. So that could suggest that, that
normalized capital generation number basically doesn't mean that much for the next few
years. How willing would you be to tap into your hold of cash buffers to still continue the
dividend promise that is on the table? That's the second question.
Third question is more around your U.S. payers. I mean your long-term interest rate
assumption is still at 4.25%, while payers are moving to 2% to 2.5%. I think at the Morgan
Stanley conference, you gave a fairly limited impact from changing that assumption, but
there's a comment in that presentation also saying that the starting point of interest rates
is sort of important. So could you update that number basically assuming that U.S. is up 60
basis points rather than 2% at the beginning of the year. And is there any knock-on effect
from changing the long-term interest rate assumption for PDR testing within your
framework? Sorry to ask that many questions by the way.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

No. That's okay. We kept tracking them. So maybe -- so first of all, on the pro forma RBC
ratio for the U.S., we did say that the U.S. RBC ratio at the end of April had improved
somewhat given tightening credit spreads and the improved equity markets. So we think
Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

it's in a 390% to 400% range. But in terms of a pro forma outlook, I would be very
reluctant to do that. You tell me what credit markets are going to do, in particular, credit
migration and credit defaults and then I can sort of give you a number, but we run
scenarios internally to test these kind of things. And I think it's just best to leave that one
live. We need to see how this one plays out. But for the time being, we are more than
adequately capitalized in the U.S. and we're in a, like I said, a good starting position there
to withstand some pain that is going to be coming.
You mentioned a couple of the management actions, the TLIC and TPLIC merger. That is
still going on for the second half of the year, though we will get some basically cash flow
testing benefit from that. The sale of the pyramid is still on target for the end of the year.
We're still in exclusive negotiations with a single party. They have to get financing. So we'll
see how that -- we're still in a process, but we still anticipate that, that would come
through.

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe on dividend policy, you called out that -- and rightfully so, our dividend policy is tied
to normalized capital generation. We try to do that to give you an indication that we try to
pay out 45% to 55% of normalized cap gen. But our own remittance targets, they're really
more driven by the combination of what our outlook is, but importantly, where you're
sitting in the -- sort of in the target zones for capital. So in the case of the U.S., like I said in
answer to the first question, as long as they are above 350% RBC ratio and there's not
terrible things on the horizon, then we would expect a normal remittance out of the U.S.
So it's not just linked to the capital generation. It does have to do with the solvency level
within the business unit. So that's an important one.
On the -- yes, so at the Morgan Stanley conference, I had talked a bit about that impact of
the long-term rate assumption. And you have it right. We -- so our long-term rate
assumption is 4.25% in the U.S., which has a 10-year grading period. And I would say it's a
bit on the long end relative to U.S. peers. We've updated that number. So let's say that we
were -- and again, we would make any change to assumptions for the U.S. with respect to
a long-term interest rate assumption as well as other experience factors in the first half of
the year, so in the second quarter.
So if we were to move that by 100 basis points down to 3.25% and retain that 10-year
grading period, we would see something like a $300 million to $325 million impact on the
IFRS results, and that would be basically intangibles write-off. And then if we made a
similar adjustment to the assumption for separate account bond portfolio returns, then
that's probably another 100 basis points. There would be a longer-term impact of this. So
those are -- those -- I want to be clear on this, when those were onetime adjustments, but
we would also see a running additional cost of about $10 million per quarter, $10 million
per quarter. And on the -- yes, it's interesting. You bring up the premium deficiency
reserve testing. That's one. I'm just going from memory, but I think we were sitting at the
sufficiency of about $250 million at the end of 2019. We're already pretty decently
covered by those forward starting swaps, but on that level of detail, I'm going to have to
get IR to get back.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

Okay. And anything else on other assumptions you feel less comfortable with going into
H1 social review?

FINAL

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

No. We're just going to have to look -- we're just going to have to continue to work
through our processes. What we've seen so far. And I think I've talked about this in other
quarters. But for example, like the long-term care assumption seems to be tracking well
with respect to our expectations. We did -- you've noticed the poor mortality result that
we had in the U.S. for the first quarter. It was really isolated in the month of March. So it's -by the way, that wouldn't even be taken into account into our experience review. There's
a bit of a lag. But we'll have to see how that one evolves over time.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Fulin Liang from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you for taking my questions. I think my first question is about the U.S. RBC ratio
because I did a calculation based on the sensitivity you provided. So I had expected about
14 percentage points for due to interest rates and about 22% for due to equity and then
you would have like 8 percentage points from the capital generation. So net-net, I was
actually expecting your solvency ratio to be around something 410%, obviously, your
reported is much lower than that. I'm just wondering whether any actual material, actual
impact to the solvency, which is not actually interest rate and equity market related. So
that's my first question. Sorry for the long question.
And secondly, is the -- so coming back to the assumption, the LTC -- LTC assumption, can
you actually mention, kind of talk, because one of your competitors in the U.S. was asked
by the regulator to -- for basically reserve enhancement due to one of the reasons
regulatory quoted is mobility improvement assumption being too aggressive. So I just
wanted to actually compare your assumption to your competitors' assumption where you
are about that assumption. So that's the second LTC assumption?
And lastly is about impairment. So in first quarter, your impairment is slightly larger than
2019, but this still like you kind of you show in the slides, way lower than the average,
which -- but given what you've seen in April, do you think actually this amount will go at a
much higher? Thank you.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Okay. Fulin, thank you for your questions. It's nice to hear your voice after the Morgan
Stanley conference. So it's probably an appropriate place to start because at that

Page 11 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

conference, we had put an estimated RBC ratio for the U.S. at that moment in time. By the
way, based on March 12 economics at 410%, which is obviously where you're coming out
when you do our, let's say, the basic sensitivities. I would make a couple of points on this.
One is that once you start getting into very, very volatile markets, then there is some
interplay between the sensitivities, and they're not all perfectly linear in the way that you
would expect them to be. But there were a couple of notable points that caused that
difference between, let's say, that 410% and where we've published the 376% for the first
quarter. I think the first one is a -- it's basically the effect of spread widening and credit
migrations and defaults. And a lot of that spread widening is actually happening in the
variable annuity book.

Bloomberg Transcript

There is a large portion of the variable annuity underlying assets that are based on bond
funds. And in fact, a lot of our guaranteed benefits like withdrawal benefits and
accumulation benefits are underlaid by what we call, volatility control funds. What these
funds do is if -- basically, if their equity market declines, then there is program trading out
of equities and into more high-quality corporate credit. So while we were -- while that
trading was happening, effectively, corporate credit spreads blew out that's something
that you couldn't get from the sensitivities. And we estimate that, that would have had
about a 16 percentage point difference in off of the basic sensitivities that you had
mentioned.
Another one is the fact that there is -- we had significant DTAs that were generated,
deferred tax assets on a statutory basis in the U.S., but there are limitations to how much
of those DTAs can be used as admitted capital. So effectively, we were capped out on
the amount of DTAs that we could admit. And that accounted for about 7 percentage
points. There were also some interest rate movements. So we always assume sort of
parallel shifts in the yield curve. I think from that March 12 number, interest rates in the 10year range had come down by about 15 basis points by the end of the quarter, but there
were some other nonlinear movements, and those accounted for about 7 percentage
points.
And then finally, we saw the legal settlement that's reflected in the press release related
to monthly deduction charges on universal life contracts. That accounted for about 4
percentage points. So I think if you add that up, you'll get to about that 376% number that
we're publishing. I would mention that all the -- like the spread widening point in the -especially on the VA portfolio, that's effectively unhedged risk, and that's now come back
as a consequence of spread tightening since the end of the first quarter. I apologize for
the long-winded answer, but I was bluntly expecting that one.
The other question. Yes. The other question you had was on -- so I wouldn't comment on
another competitor, but I can comment on the state of Maine. So Maine had had one of
our competitors, basically grade in additional reserves for their long-term care book over
a period of 6 or 7 years. There, I saw reports that Maine had contacted other state
regulators, other state insurance departments. Frankly, I don't know if they have contacted
Iowa. We asked the question and didn't get an answer. I can only really tell you that we are
in constant contact with our regulator. There's no specific study being done by the Iowa
regulator on long-term care provisions. And I would just emphasize that our -- that again,
our experience is tracking well with our expectations.
Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

You asked a specific question there, what is our assumption with respect to morbidity
improvement. We assume 1.5% annual morbidity improvement. And I think we've
previously telegraphed that if we were to remove that assumption, it would roughly have,
I think, $600 million or $700 million impact generally in both IFRS and capital. So I hope I've
answered your question well there.
Yes, impairment. So it's really -- yes, our impairments are still low. But impairments are
going to come and credit migration is going to come. So that, as I had answered one of
the questions earlier, we do not know the speed nor the depth at which the credit
migration and default impacts are going to come through the statutory balance sheet. I
can say that in the first couple of weeks of the -- I previously talked about the RBC ratio
now probably being in a 390% to 400% range, I think, since the beginning of the quarter,
there's not -- there's still not been so much -- again, so much credit migration and
defaults yet. But again, much too early to tell, this is going to take quite some time to play
through the credit markets.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will now take our next question from Nick Holmes from Societe Generale. Please go
ahead.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Hi guys. Thank you very much. Just a couple of questions. The first is with the variable
annuity book, are you worried about an increase in the cost of hedging if markets remain
volatile, which is probably quite likely? And secondly, with the RBC ratio, it's really the
same question. How vulnerable is that ratio to an increase in variable annuity hedge costs?
If markets do remain volatile, and we see a lot of the sort of movements that have, as you
were explaining in your last question, actually caused unexpected losses to the ratio.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Thanks for your question, Nick. So just a reminder, this is a 1 quarter -- or first quarter
trading update. So we haven't gone into a lot of the detail that we would normally do for a
results release, so I don't have an update on expected hedging costs. What I can say
about it is that in the dynamic program that we have that is associated with the WB and
AB books, our hedge costs are more, let's say, influenced by actual volatility, actual
volatility. So they are going to increase there. There's no question about it.
What we did do a pretty good job was, I think, in the course of the first quarter and
coming into the second quarter is on the macro hedge. And that's where we had gone in
with some out of the money put options and have actually done quite a bit better on that
hedge than what we would have expected because you get the benefit of the higher
implied volatility in the option prices, and that we've since pivoted a bit. So that we're

Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

more out of options and the high prices of puts for the implied vol and more into linear
instruments.
But the actual running cost of the hedge program, that's -- I would say that's a second
order concern to me, both in terms of capital in regards to earnings. What is -- what's
more of the thing that we have to watch out for is the impact of credit markets, credit
migration on the balance sheet in the U.S. together ultimately with the impacts of
additional mortality due to COVID-19. So as long as the hedging programs are effective,
that's perfectly good. They performed extremely well in the first quarter and have
continued to do so as we've gone through the month of April. And frankly, that's in a very
volatile environment. That was a terrific result.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Great. Just a very quick follow-up. I think a lot of your competitors are using just dynamic
hedging rather than a macro hedge. Is that something that you would say is correct? I
mean you're using both macro and dynamic. Is that unusual, would you say, in the
industry?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

You -- there -- how do you want to say it, there are many ways to skin a cat, and you're
trying to hedge basically the same risk. I mean really the macro hedge, and I think you
know this well relates mainly to variable annuity exposure. People do it in dynamic
programs. We tend to do it in -- have typically done it more in a tail risk scenario. But it's
just a choice. It's always -- it's a trade-off between the hedge costs and what kind of
downside protection that you're looking at.
So right now, as we were in put option programs before for the macro hedge that was a
pretty good trade because we're operating at very high solvency levels in the U.S., and
we did it to minimize the cost while protecting a big downside. So we're super successful
at doing that. But at this moment in time, I think I mentioned in my presentation that we
go to more linear instruments, so it will be more like a dynamic program that other
companies might use. I hope that answers your question.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Yeah. Great. Thanks very much, Matt.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Albert Ploegh from ING. Please go ahead.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning all and thank you for the questions. I've got three. Basically, the first
one on the U.S. mortality. You alluded in the presentation, it was not very much linked to
COVID-19 in the first quarter, so more seasonal and clearly bigger than normal. But can

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

you update a bit on what your expectations are on the COVID itself on the mortality and
maybe for the remainder of the year or at least the second quarter so far.
The second question on the U.S. capital generation, yes, and setting aside for the
moment, the new business strain and discussion on the normalized impairments. But can
you help us out a little bit on, let's say, the headwinds from lower rates so far this year in
relation to the EUR 1.1 billion generated last year. So front book -- back book kind of yields?
And then what kind of offsets you at least have from still elevated credit spreads? Just
feeling what the normalized generation is going to?
And then the third question is on the new business strain. It seems to me that the U.S. still
was a pretty normal quarter, I think is somewhere on the slide, EUR 230 million. The sales
clearly will be more complicated in the second quarter. Do you see any risk to cost
assumptions underlying sales volumes, if I recall correctly, that, that was an issue in the
latter half of last year. Thank you.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks for your questions, Albert. So maybe on U.S. mortality, yes, it was a poor quarter,
and it was, in particular, it was a poor month. So most of that for mortality came through in
the month of March. I talk about this as not being necessarily COVID-19 related. But we do
have a bit of an issue in that. You can't tell for sure. Because of that, if you're in February,
March, people were becoming infected and we're dying, but like COVID-19 cause of
death was not being printed on death certificates. So at this moment, it's just -- it's safe to
say that it was not COVID-19 related.
But looking forward, yes, we have many estimates related to mortality rates that we're
already seeing in the U.K. and other places and transposed over to the U.S. But what we
don't know is how this is going to happen in the insured population. So we have
estimates, but it's just simply too early to share those. We're going to watch this play out
over the coming quarters and not provide any specific guidance in that respect.
On the U.S. capital generation, you specifically mentioned lower rates and credit spreads.
So maybe just to give you a little -- we always give these numbers. So for U.S.
reinvestment yields in the first quarter, so this is new money yields were coming in at
3.64%, and the back book yield was 4.5%. Now that was an interesting one because in the
first quarter, you saw 10-year treasury come down by 125 basis points. But generally,
corporate credit spreads had blown out by like almost 95 basis points. So net-net, it
wasn't that big of an impact, but there is a strain for generally lower interest rates. And
these are numbers that we have talked about before on the statutory side that we do
reinvest for $4 billion to $5 billion per year.
And if reinvestment rates are down by 100 basis points, they're not now, but if
reinvestments are down by 100 basis points, then you're looking at $40 million to $50
million pretax impacts on capital generation per year. And it compounds if rates remain
low. So that is something clearly that we are watching out for.

Page 15 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

New business strain was a bit of a normal quarter in that - yes, a normal quarter and that
sales weren't impacted that much yet. And actually, we saw a little bit higher new business
strain as a consequence of the lower rate environment. But as we see those face-to-face
sales, particularly in variable annuities and indexed universal life and on products within the
high net worth business in China come down, then you are going to see that -- you are
going to see that new business strain come down. Now that has obviously like a beneficial
impact on normalized capital generation in the short term. But in the long term, it's going
to start affecting us. So right now, we know that it's going to happen.
The expense side is an interesting one. It would be hard to bake in a long-term expense
assumption based on crisis experience. But we're just going to continue to do our work,
update our expense assumptions in the first half of the year. But my expectation is that
you would never -- yes, you would never base your long-term assumptions in a very
strange environment, such as what we're in now.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Thank you, Matt.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Hey. Good morning. Just three questions, if I may. Just the first question, you said that
your RBC ratio has gone from -- to about 390% to 400%, but the group's solvency ratio
has gone to about 190% to 200%. So is it fair to assume that the negative movement has
all come from the Netherlands? Or has there been debt redemption or something going
on to account for the move in the group solvency down?
The second question is, just your comment on the U.S. hedge program and the move
from implied to realize, which suggests that you're leaving open gap risk in equity
markets. So can you sort of give us a sensitivity for a 20% drop in equity markets and the
change in your RBC ratio when you use options when -- versus when you're not using
options?
And the third question is in the Netherlands business, is the regulator stopping you
remitting from the Dutch entity to the holding company? Or can you still remit from the
Dutch entity to the holding company? Thank you.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yes. So maybe on the first one, Johnny, so you have it exactly right. So we would -- we see
the improvement. So for April, we see that improvement in the U.S. RBC ratio, but EIOPA
VA has come back now for the Netherlands. So, excuse me, so that one is, we would think
it's probably more in the 215% to 225% range. So on balance, the group ratio is coming
down into that 190% to 200%. So it's just a mix thing.
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

The U.S. hedge program, you're talking about GAAP risk and equity markets and
quantifying the linear versus out of the money impacts for a 20% decline. I'm not going to
comment on that now. We've published new sensitivities. I think they should be pretty,
pretty okay, linear for smaller movements. But I'm going to let IR come back to you on that
one. I don't have the figures in front of me.
On the Dutch regulator, I might answer this question a little bit more broadly. It has been -it's been interesting the response of various regulators to the EIOPA guidance about
being careful about recommending to not make dividend payments. Some regulators like,
for example, Poland, have just said, no money going out of legal entities even intergroup,
other regulators like the Netherlands are fine to have the money come from within the
group, but they put their restriction based on the EIOPA guidance, and it applies to other
insurance companies in the Netherlands only on external dividends. So from a Dutch
regulatory standpoint, they're not putting a restriction on intercompany dividends or
intergroup dividends, but other regulators could potentially have concerns about that. And
it's -- by the way, it's a pretty broad spectrum of approaches. It's a little bit -- I would say, a
little bit unhelpful not to get a unified approach from EIOPA.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will now take our next question from David Motemaden from Evercore. Please go
ahead.

Q - David Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

Good morning. Matt, I had a few questions on the U.S. First, just some of your peers in the
U.S. have provided some level of sensitivity to COVID deaths in the population, for
example, if there are 100,000 COVID deaths in the U.S., what sort of impact that would
have in terms of mortality for their books. So wondering if you could provide some detail
in a similar way, if that's possible.
Second, just on the legal entity merger, the TPLIC/TLIC merger in the second half of the
year. I was wondering if you could just quantify how much you expect this to benefit
capital? And if that's something you view as being fungible? And then just lastly, a quick
follow-up on the LTC book, where the competitor in Maine, it was, I guess, a financial
exam that they went through. And I guess I'm just wondering when was the last time TLIC
underwent a financial exam in Iowa. Thank you.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks for your question. So on the potential impact of COVID-19 deaths, yes,
we're doing some internal scenario testing on this one. But at this point, we're not giving
any guidance to the market.

Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

On the main question, yes, so the last time Transamerica Life Insurance Company went
through an audit by the state. I think that they do it every 5 years. So I think we're just
starting now a new one, so a new quinquennial audit. But as I mentioned before, we're
not getting any specific questions on the long-term care book at this point.
Yes, on the legal entity merger, I'm going to, yes, I think -- so maybe just a couple of
points on this one. We expect that it will -- that it will happen in the second half of the year.
It will have a beneficial impact on the, say, cash flow testing adequacy results. It's a bit
unrelated to the sale of the pyramid. So this is one that will definitely -- this is one that will
definitely go through. I don't have in front of me an impact on the ratio for this one.

Q - David Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

Great. And if I could just follow-up on the financial exam in Iowa. So that's just started. Is
there any sense for when that will conclude?

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

These things take a while. I'm not -- I'm going to let IR come back to you, but it's going to
be something like -- these are like year exams.

Q - David Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

Yep, understood. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We will now take our next question from Benoit Petrarque from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please
go ahead.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes, good morning all. Two questions on my side. So the first one will be on the U.S.
solvency ratio. I'm going to think a bit worse case there. But in an event, you will kind of
get close or eat the 350% level. I was wondering how we have to think about remittances.
Obviously, we don't get to this level every day. So do we have to think about a gradual
decrease of potential remittances as you get close to the 350%? Or will remittances kind
of drop to 0 when you eat the 350%? I'm just wondering how it works in practice when
you get close to the 350% level in terms of kind of speed of the decrease there of the
remittances.
On rating migration, that's number two, so you've said, okay, we have a big uncertainty
and nobody knows how much rating downgrades will get eventually. But do you plan at
this stage to potentially take some prudence in terms of cash remittance from the U.S.
just because of the kind of big elephant in the room, which is rating migration probably
taking place, by the way, early next year. So just wondering how you plan to take that into
account in your capital planning? Thank you.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}
Page 18 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

Thanks, Benoit. So maybe on just specifically on the capital management policy that we
follow, the bottom end of the target range for the U.S. is 350%. And according to our own
internal policy, as long as you're at or above 350%, and we would expect your sort of fully
planned remittance. And then if you dip below that, that's when we would expect lower
remittances, lower remittances. We're not in that place yet. We're sitting there, as I said,
right now, between 390% and 400%. And I think I mentioned that on the -- in the
presentation itself, that we would expect to get the first remittance or the first half of
their annual remittance in June of this year, barring really unforeseen circumstances.
But that also allows us to take a bit of time, right? So we don't know exactly how deep
and how long this is going to be. So we need to see this play a bit out in the markets. So
the next time that they would pay a dividend would be in December. So if we get into
December and we see credit markets have really deteriorated or really low solvency
ratios or something like that, then we would take a prudent decision there. But it is simply
too early to tell about the second half. We're good with the first half that sort of teed up.
But the second half, let's wait until we see how this plays out a bit.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that sort of plays into the rating migration point. There is going to be rating migration.
There are going to be increased defaults. It's probably going to take some time to work
through the system. One thing that we have seen is that rating agencies have been much
quicker this time to downgrade and to do those actions. But for right now, we're not
seeing it so much even through the April results.
But it's coming. Credit migration and default is going to be coming, and we want to take it
step-by-step and make those decisions according to our capital management policies,
looking at the best information that we have at this point in time. But it's hard to project
forward not knowing what that path is going to be like. All I can tell you is that we are
taking management actions internally to preserve the economic value of the balance
sheet. We will be taking expense actions. And we were, like I said, pretty good shape as
we entered into the crisis with the balance sheet. To begin with, we already had many of
these capital management actions teed up like the TLIC/TPLIC merger. But yes, I would
say it really is too early to -- it really is too early to tell.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Andrew Baker from Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 3694545 <GO>}

Hi guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just one quick one last from me. Has there been
any impact on the TCS project migrations or timing or costs associated with that project?
Have you seen any operational issues since the crisis has begun with TCS specifically?

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}
Page 19 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2020-05-12

FINAL

I would say small operational issues, but they were pretty quickly taken care of. So just the
availability of laptops for the TCS employees to be able to work from home was a shortterm issue that got solved. There had been some delays in the implementation of that
bank's system. But now that has been -- we just implemented the first variable annuity
product as of May 1.
So there -- yes, so that one, I think I mentioned in the presentation, we look at those
outsourcing relationships pretty closely here. But so far, we're being able to operate in a
controlled environment. And I mean -- sort of as a testament, I mean, just think about it,
we normally report half year results. Here, we're doing a 1Q update. The whole thing was
done from home. So our controls from a financial standpoint and operations standpoint
have really hung in there. So it's actually been better than what anybody could have
expected from an operational standpoint.

Operator
That concludes today's question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the conference back
to the host for any additional or closing remarks.

A - Jan Willem Weidema

{BIO 15133400 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your continued interest. This concludes today's call.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

