Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

S1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Guido Maria Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Massimiliano R. Riggi, Head of Investor Relations
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Alberto Cordara, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Federico Braga, Analyst
Gian Luca Ferrari, Analyst
Giovanni Razzoli, Analyst
Manuela Meroni, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome and thank you for joining Poste Italiane's Second Quarter and
First Half 2020 Financial Results Conference Call. As a reminder, all participants are in
listen-only mode. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Massimiliano Riggi, Poste Italiane, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Poste Italiane second quarter 2020
results presented by our CEO, Matteo Del Fante; and our Group CFO Guido Nola.
Following the presentation, we will be glad to answer your questions. Now let me pass it
over to Matteo.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. I will take you through the highlights of the
quarter before handing over to our CFO, Guido Nola, for a more detailed business
review. I also had the pleasure to introduce you today, the newly appointed deputy CFO
(inaudible). Happy to have you on Board (inaudible). I will then provide some closing
remarks before we open the call for questions.

Page 1 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

Let's start with a quick overview on slide three, please. Lockdown has materially impacted
the ﬁrst-half results. However, we can now proudly say that we successfully manage the
emergency impacted the resilience of our business, reconﬁrming our reputation and role
as a systemic player of the country.
Lockdown accelerated the trends already embedded in our long-term strategy across all
segments and thanks to our ongoing transformation plan, we're now able to fully exploit
market opportunities. In summary, the trend accelerated by the emergency where ecommerce and digital usage on the positive side and may have decline on the negative.
In-line we deliver 2022 in the last few years, we invested signiﬁcantly in logistics sorting
[ph]] capabilities, we fully implemented our Joint Delivery Model and strengthen our
client digital penetration to counterbalance mail decline.
Our strategy was appropriate then and still stand going forward. Mail revenues were
signiﬁcantly impacted by a mix of temporary and permanent eﬀects. On one end, the
acceleration of e-substitution persist, on the other hand that the sharp decline of some
higher margin products, strictly related to lock-down, these expected to slowly reversed
in the next six to 12 months has registered mail, backlogs reduces.

Bloomberg Transcript

Parcel revenues grew, as e-commerce push B2C volumes further. After having reached
historical peaks, B2C ﬂows are old enough, well above the pre-Covid levels and expected
to take these new base for additional growth going forward. As Italy remains well below
European average in terms of number of parcel per year -- per head.
However, the diverging trends in mail and parcel are at present negatively impacting our
P&L as parcel revenues are growing from a lower base and with lower margins compared
to mail. Financial and insurance services, as well as payments and mobile, has gained
momentum since June. More speciﬁcally in ﬁnancial and insurance services, product sales
are steadily recovering, supported by renewed commercial focus. The gradual upturn in a
digital and positively contributed to an encouraging second half of the year.
In payment and mobile, we are experiencing increasing traﬃc in volume, both Telco and
Digital channels. Finally, we are proactively, addressing lower revenues, the structural cost
reduction already visible in the quarter. Moving to Group ﬁnancial results on slide four.
The ﬁnancial performance was impacted by the emergency both in the quarter and in the
ﬁrst half across all segments. Group revenues amounted to 2.3 billion in the quarter, down
13% year-on-year and EUR5.1 billion in the ﬁrst half, down 8% year-on-year.
Total costs came down in Q2 by almost 10%, as you will see later, over 40% of the cost
base reduction, achieved in Q2 is recurring. EBIT for the quarter is equal to EUR325
million, down 30% and EUR706 million in the ﬁrst half, down 29% year-on-year. Thanks to
signiﬁcant cost eﬃciencies achieved we have been able to absorb approximately 60% of
lower revenues impacted on EBIT.
Net proﬁt trends up to EUR239 million in the second quarter, down 26% and EUR546
million in the ﬁrst half, down 28%, considering three months of full lock down in the ﬁrst
half of the year, these results clearly demonstrate our resilience. Moving to Slide ﬁve. We
Page 2 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

want to remind how we weathered the crisis leading up to our role of social and
economic weaken of the country.
We faced the crisis with a strong balance sheet, a proﬁtable and diversiﬁed business
model and steady operations. Our performance heavily suﬀered from lock-down but
thanks to the reach of our unique client base, we consolidated our role as a distribution
platform of choice. During the emergency, uninterrupted services were guaranteed
across the country, while ensuring the safety of our employees and customers. We
supported local and ﬁnancial institution in implementation of social and economic
initiatives, a clear example, is how we partner with Italian institution managing the logistic
of the COVID related PPE materials in 90,000 square meters, warehouses, distributed in
12 locations across the country.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are home delivery 3 million premium mask to Italian households and cash pension to
elderly client in partnership with Alessandro Del Gobbo. Thanks to our uninterrupted
services, and clients focused our brand and client trust further improve. In this context, as
we anticipated in our Analyst call in May, the emergency is being the opportunity for a
comprehensive strategic review of our market opportunities, commercial approach, cost
base and processes. We will continue to leverage on our multi-channel network to deliver
a wide-range of products, developing synergies between physical, digital and third-party
networks.
Complementing in-person interaction with the remote advisory model, we intend to
maximize our commercial network productivity oﬀering both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial
products, engage eﬃciencies at the same time. On non-HR expenses, we have put in
place tactical short-term initiative, as well as long-term actions, such as the strategic
review of our real asset portfolio.
We have completely restructured our commercial organization in July, with the aim of
targeting SMEs with our wide product oﬀering and introduce a stronger industry speciﬁc
focus to better on the trend and better serve our clients. In summary, we're pushing our
our B2B and our B2B B2C agendas with strong eﬀorts and commitments. Finally, time was
appropriate to reassess the way we run our activities accelerate on smart-working and
insourcing.
These are just some of the elements that we contribute to the upcoming strategic plan. In
the next two slides, you will see certain business trend we have experience before, during
and post lock-down across all segments. As you can see on slide six, in June commercial
activities revamp, with a steady increase in digital and third-party network transaction,
partially compensating a reduction in operation, across our physical network.
As we mentioned, Mail and Parcel, show diverging trends with mail declining persisting
and B2C parcel volume steady [ph] increase in since lock-down and year-on-year. Moving
to slide seven, you can see the ﬁnancial and insurance services, as well as payment and
mobile are now back to business, with commercial activities picking up year-on-year. Daily
gross inﬂows in June, recorded a higher paced compared to both beginning of the year
and 2019. This is partially related to a backlog eﬀect since lock-down was lifted, a positive

Page 3 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

trend is also conﬁrm in July, in terms of distributional postal savings, multi-class and
modular P&C products. Looking at payments Poste, e-commerce on traction grew steadily
with customers, widening the scope of their spending. Telco continues to progress in a
competitive environment and the relevant market share increased by 1 percentage point
in March. Thanks to a very loyal client base.
Let me now hand over to Guido, who will take you to a more detail business review, I will
then provide some ﬁnal comments, before we answer your questions. Over to you, Guido.

Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Thank you Matteo. Good afternoon, everyone. We are glad to talk to you today in a much
better environment than last time. Let's start with a quick overview of segment revenues
on slide nine.

Bloomberg Transcript

In line with last quarter, we present April and May on one side, as they are the most
impacted by lock-down and June on the other side, which shows initial signs of recovery,
across most segments. At group level, we reached EUR2.3 billion in revenues, mail, parcel
and distribution, was [ph] been most impacted by lockdown. e-substitution and product
mix, continue to visibly impact mail revenues with only marginal recovery in June.
On the other hand, B2C volume growth conﬁrms the validity of our strategy, supporting a
strong increase in Parcel revenues, as shown in a couple of slides. Since June, the other
segments have showed signiﬁcant signs of recovery of the underlying operating trends.
Financial services is back on track, mainly thanks to the strong momentum of Postal
Savings Bonds distribution. In insurance, while the top-line in June is (inaudible) by a
positive valuation eﬀect related to 2019. The commercial activity has registered higher
gross inﬂows in June year-on-year.
Thanks to multi-class products and P&C modular oﬀer. Payment and mobile revenues in
June were impacted by a mix eﬀect of lower margin transactions and the suspension of
tax payments. However, we continue to see progression in digital platforms usage, with
over 40% increase year-on-year of daily online users. The Telco business continues to
perform well and gain further market share, leveraging on a loyal customer base.
Let me now take you through each segment, starting Mail, Parcel & Distribution on slide
10. Overall segment revenues were down 20% in the quarter due to a general slowdown
of the relevant activities. There are several reasons for this slowdown. All of them, driven
by external factors; such as E-substitution for unrecorded mail and a stop of commercial
activities for direct marketing mails. In addition to these items, the suspension of recorded
mail delivery due to the closure of Courts of Justice, during lockdown and very few road
traﬃc ﬁne certiﬁcation accounted for over 50% of the overall decline. On the parcel side,
revenues increased by 33%, thanks to higher volumes across all product lines and
boosted by B2C.
Distribution revenues increased by 11% impacted by lower fees paid to the network. On
Slide 11, if you look at the core volume and pricing trends for mail. Overall mail volumes
Page 4 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

fell 24% in the second quarter. Higher margin recorded mail experienced a shortfall of
48% in Q2, with certain volumes and revenues expected to recover in the second half of
the year.
The strength is in-line with all our European peers which in certain cases are showing,
uneven steeper decline. In June, the negative trends slow-down to 14% year-on-year,
compared to a minus 28% in April and May. Mail average price was down 11% in the
quarter, due to a product mix eﬀect.
On slide 12, we are providing you with monthly data on volumes, including July. To give
you further granularity on trends. Mail volumes starting to recovered from April, mainly
due to lower margin products, such as direct marketing and our recorded mail. Monthly
volume decreased on average by 20% year-to-date, a trend redeem to be reasonable,
also for the rest of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking forward to the plan, we're already working on a proactive eﬃciency measures to
address the acceleration of e-substitution. On slide 13, we show parcel volumes in the
quarter, with a strong increase of 54% year-on-year. B2C volumes surged 80%, also
leveraging on the ongoing diversiﬁcation of the customer base. B2B volumes also
increased, with corporates diversifying their shipments also to retail customers. The
successful industrial transformation fueled by ongoing investments, strengthen our
logistic value chain. Our automated sorting center in Bologna managed for a long peak
period and our Joint Delivery Model gave us more ﬂexibility as our Postini started to
deliver more Parcels, counterbalancing lower mail volume.
The partnerships with (inaudible) continue to improve our long-haul transportation and
last mile delivery options, months-after-month. The average price index for parcel was
down 21% in year, reﬂecting a change in volume mix. B2C prices were stable on average
with higher tariﬀs from key customers. Slide 14, shows the monthly evolution of parcel
volumes until July. As we have already seen, volumes signiﬁcantly increase from April,
repeatedly reaching record high daily peaks, comparable to those normally registered
during Black Friday or Christmas.
In the second quarter, inbound parcel volumes and revenues from China was six times
higher than last year. To give you an idea for several days during the quarter. China as a
whole, represented the ﬁrst client of Poste. We intend to strengthen even further, the
cooperation with our Chinese partners to boost volumes, oﬀering additional services,
such as end-to-end trucking and faster delivery.
Moving to payment and mobile on slide 15. Revenues continue to increase up 3.5%
despite the current challenging environment. Our integrated strategy for Telco and
Payments, continues to pay-oﬀ, the Telco revenues up by a strong 24%, thanks to an
increasing customer base, outpacing competitors.
Traﬃc volumes both on mobile and ﬁxed-lines increased in-line with the trend witnessed
during March and April, both for voice and data. This has limited eﬀect on revenues, as
most client pay, ﬂat payers, while on our side, certain cost increased the traﬃc. Our stock
Page 5 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

remain broadly stable. Let me underline that we are already running ahead of the original
target set for 2022. Our payment revenues were resilient also during lock-down. The
gradual shift towards higher recurring margin evolution cards, continues oﬀsetting lower
international transactions and ATM withdrawals also aﬀected by the absence of two
reasons [ph].
After operational trends, we continue to gain momentum. Thanks to the strength of our
multi-channel platform that responded well to the partial closure of post oﬃces. Since the
beginning of the year, over 2 million existing customers, started to use our digital
channels, with a broader activity in e-commerce transactions, especially in the Food,
Pharma, Electronics and Clothing sectors.
An important widening stroke, especially if we think, just a few months ago, clients online
purchases were directed mainly towards transport and leisure. Other payments were
impacted by the deferral of tax payments introduced by law. But are expected to resume
in the second half. Inter-company revenues mostly coming from ﬁnancial services were
down, due to the decrease in bill payments in post oﬃces, partially compensated by
increased transaction through our digital channels and third-party networks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to ﬁnancial services, on slide 16. Segment revenues were down 10% in the quarter
to EUR1.2 billion. The suspension of commercial activities during lock-down of both
ﬁnancial and insurance products marked [ph] the performance of the quarter. However
already in June we saw tangible signs of restart, which we expect to consolidate during
the second part of the year.
Going line by line. Interest income was resilient, down 3% year-on-year thanks to the
active management of our BTP portfolio and higher retail inﬂows on accounts in the ﬁrst
half. Mitigating the impact of the yield compression. Postal saving distribution fees were
up 5% to EUR451 million, in line with our original full-year projection, thanks to the new
campaign products, successfully distributed by a physical and digital channels in June.
Asset management fees were resilient year-on-year, thanks to recurring commissions.
Loan and mortgage distribution upfront fees amounted to 13 million in the quarter,
strongly aﬀected by lock-down until May.
As you can see in the appendix, on page 41 in June, we saw volumes up 22% year-onyear, with positive progression in July. This performance consolidated our position, thus
reaching a 20% market share on new personal loans in June compared to about 9% prelock down. The positive commercial dynamics is not yet reﬂected in revenues, since in
June we conservatively booked a negative EUR18 million one-oﬀ charge to face potential
future early repayments, driven by a low interest rate environment.
Transaction banking fees were down 21%, mainly due to strong reduction in payment
slips, as commented already in payment and mobile. These item is broadly -- on EBIT, as
these revenues are paid back to payment and mobile for service and to Mail, Parcel &
Distribution for network remuneration.

Page 6 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

No capital gains were booked this quarter, around EUR100 million net capital gains
remain for 2020, are already secured with strong contracts with forward contracts to be
accounted for in the second half. Given current market conditions, we are also starting to
secure, capital gains plan for 2021. Inter-segment distribution revenues were down 20%,
mainly related to fewer insurance products distributed year-on-year.
Moving to slide 17. TFA's are up by a signiﬁcant EUR12.2 billion, reaching EUR548 billion
with EUR9 billion positive net inﬂows across all asset classes and EUR3.3 billion positive
market eﬀect. Customers conﬁrm their trust in our brand and continue to rely on our wide
range of products. Postal savings registered new ﬂows for EUR1.5 billion, thanks to a
successful campaign products that well responded to client demand for liquid and fully
capital guaranteed products. Deposits increased by EUR5.7 billion, conﬁrming a clear
preference of customers for liquidity, which will support commercial initiatives planned for
the second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Net technical provisions are up EUR1.6 billion, thanks to commercial focus on insurance
product in particular multi-class. As we have seen since June, commercial activities, we
started leveraging on large liquidity on current accounts and postal saving books, also
coming from the expiry of a very large stock of existing products. The redemption of our
dialog with customers on saving products, after lock-down has been ﬂawless. As their
portfolio had very limited impact, if any, from the market downturn.
Insurance volumes are growing year-on-year, thanks to products with gradual increase of
risk exposure that well protected our clients. After two years since the launch of multiclass products back in July, 2018, we have totaled over 10 billion gross written premiums,
becoming number one in the Italian market.
Moving to slide 18. On insurance services, topline revenues were impacted by reduced
customer activity. Life revenues were down by 17%, year-on-year due to EUR1 billion lower
gross written premiums and to a lesser extent to promotional fees on new products sold
from May.
Revenues declined less than gross inﬂows as we increasingly rely on recurring
management fees. The reliability of our business and brand is also conﬁrmed by the
reduction of the lapse rate in such as challenging quarter. Lapse rate, which continues to
remain low to-date. Year-on-year, June was impacted by lower releases on technical
reserves related to expenses for EUR24 million. This eﬀect is expected to reverse in the
second half of the year. As mentioned, commercial activity is recovering steadily in June,
with gross written premiums higher year-on-year.
We continue to focus on our multi-class product with gradually increasing exposure for to
-- risk for clients. It was launched back in January and further developed in June to allow
for better potential returns in sharp market movements. Non-life revenues were impacted
by lock-down, particularly in April and May. While our modular oﬀer contributed to
reverse this trend since June, with strong daily average sales.

Page 7 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

Let's move to Slide 19, PosteVita Solvency II ratio stood at 216% above our managerial
ambition of 200% through the cycle and in a volatile market. Since March, the negative
impact of lower risk free rates more than oﬀset BTP Bund spread tightening. On the other
hand, corporate spreads positive trend resulted in a lower currency volatility adjustment
of 27 basis points with a negative net impact on the ratio. Including transitional measures,
solvency II ratio is up 250%, as they provide a beneﬁt of 34 percentage points and
represent an additional buﬀer to address market volatility.
Let's move to slide 20, where we present sensitivity on the Solvency II ratio. Without
taking into account transitional measures Solvency II ratio is above our risk tolerance
threshold in all assumed scenarios. A sudden decrease in interest rates by 25 basis points,
would reduce the ratio to 177%, implying a 10 year swap at minus 42 basis points, 10 basis
points lower than historical minimum ever reach. The sudden increase in the Italian
government spread by 100 basis points would result in a ratio of 164%, as country volatility
adjustment would be triggered.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also run the same simulation presented in Q1. Combining a shock on interest rates
down 25 basis points, equities down 30% and corporate and government bond spreads
up a 100 basis points. In this shocked scenario, the outcome will still be above our risk
tolerance of 130% and 165% considering transitional measures. Finally let me reiterate that
PosteVita is developing an internal model, which we expect to further reduce the volatility
of Solvency II ratio in the future.
On slide 21, we go back to group level with Poste's continue workforce evolution. Our
average head count decreased from 129,000 in December '19 to 125,000 FTEs at the end
of June, nearing our target of 123,000 FTEs in 2022. On the other hand, we manage the
exit of almost 7,000 FTEs and the termination of almost 2000 ﬁxed term contracts. On the
other hand, we hired 4,600 FTEs, indeed we continue to believe that people are a key
enabler of our successful transformation and we remain committed to continuously, reassessing and rejuvenate our workforce. Taking into account organizational sites and skills
required in speciﬁc business areas.
Our ability to actively manage our workforce in a ﬂexible way is conﬁrmed to adapt to the
evolution of business needs and to create sustainable eﬃciencies. Moving to group cost
on slide 22. In order to mitigate lower revenues, we took managerial actions to cut the
cost lines as already visible in the quarter. Ordinary HR costs are down 12% year-on-year.
The reduction of FTEs needs to a recurring saving of around EUR50 million on a quarterly
basis.
Performance related savings of EUR65 million referred to the ﬁrst half of the year with
additional EUR30 million expected in the second half. Non-HR costs overall are down,
despite the EUR29 million one-oﬀ cost incurred to face the emergency in the quarter on
top of the EUR23 million booked in Q1.
Other costs for goods and services were ﬂat in the quarter, even including almost 15 [ph]
million higher volume driven expenses related to growing business in payment and
mobile, and in parcels. D&A decreased by EUR60 million, due to the reassessment of the

Page 8 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

residual useful life and value of certain Group real assets in accordance with IFRS. Going
forward, the Group will beneﬁt quarterly from 30 million lower G&A, on a recurring basis.

FINAL

Besides we are undertaking a strategic review of our real estate assets, starting from the
instrumental ones and aiming to expand it to non-instrument assets later in the year.
Turning on slide 23, you can see an update on the cost reduction initiatives in Q2. Please
bear in mind, once again that our objective here is not nearly to cut costs in 2020. But you
take the opportunity to extract long-term eﬃciencies enact on our cost base in a structural
way to preserve sustainability. Let's start from HR costs. As seen on the previous slide,
2020 performance related incentives have been reduced with 65 million savings in the
ﬁrst half and EUR30 million expected in H2, leading to an overall cost reduction of almost
a EUR100 million in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is a one-oﬀ, as we expect activity to be entirely back in 2021. Moving to head count,
also leveraging on the Joint Delivery Model in mail and parcel, we have already saved
EUR100 million in the ﬁrst half. And we're planned to achieve recurring EUR200 million
savings, already starting from 2020. On the other hand, we conﬁrm our early retirement
plan to achieve a leaner organization. Other cost savings, within HR had been achieved
during lock-down thanks to follow payments with saving of some EUR75 million envisage
for 2020 already booked in Q2.
Of course this item is not expected beyond 2020. Non-HR costs were down some EUR15
million in the quarter for items, such as energy, employee beneﬁts and travel expenses.
We expect some EUR45 million savings in 2020 and approximately EUR60 million on a
yearly basis going forward. In the meantime, we continue to review discretionary
expenses to address new priorities.
From a strategic point of view, in light of the new plan, we are reviewing process to
maximize eﬃciencies while sustaining our services in the long run. Of course, this needs
more time to bear fruit. That will allow us to do business in a more eﬃcient and
productive way, starting from 2021. Now let's move to slide 24. Summarizing the eﬀect of
revenues and costs at operating level, segment by segment. As anticipated Mail, Parcel &
Distribution suﬀered the most.
Quarterly operating proﬁtability was down 30% year-on-year with all segment impacted
by Lock-down partially mitigated by the recovery in June and my [ph] actions on cost. In
particular, revenues were severely aﬀected by a two-months lock-down in the quarter, and
we eﬀectively managed to absorb over 60% of the invest, with strong reduction of costs.
As a result. EBIT for the quarter is equal to EUR325 million, down EUR139 million year-onyear against a revenue decrease of EUR352 million. On a segment basis, the underlying
operating trends conﬁrms our recovering of the activity since June. With the exception of
mail, where the recovery is nearly related to cost cutting.
Let me now hand back to Matteo for some closing remarks. Thank you.

Page 9 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Guido. Before taking your questions, let me close with some key messages on
slide 25. The environment remain challenging for most of the quarter, but we continue to
show strong resilience. The diversiﬁcation of Poste business model and the exceptional
client needs, we serve ensure proﬁtability throughout the cycle.
To face the challenges posed by the emergency were implementing, targeted cost
discipline initiative absorbing area and part of the impact of lower revenues and creating
structural eﬃciency to preserve the long-term sustainability of our business. Looking at
the rest of 2020, we're working under the assumption of reduce uncertainty, supported
by constructive commercial trends and eﬀective eﬃciency measures. Under these
assumptions, we conﬁrm our dividend strategy ahead of the update of our Deliver 2022
Strategic Plan later in Q4.
Before moving to Q&A session, let me thank you again for joining us today. As you can
imagine, we're not traveling after these results. However, we will organize virtual
roadshows and we hope to see you then. Over to you Mr. Massimiliano.

Questions And Answers
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
The ﬁrst question is from Giovanni Razzoli, Equita. Your line is open.

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Good afternoon to everybody and thank you for the presentations. Three very quick
questions, the ﬁrst one relates to the comment that Mr. Matteo [ph] made -- just made
about the dividend strategy. So that is unchanged ahead of the plan in Q4. So shall we
assume that you are targeting to conﬁrm the interim dividend payment in the Q3. This is
my ﬁrst question.
The second question, you have made a clear commitment to start -- reduce the cost base.
Can you remind us what -- where the extraordinary costs booked in the Q4, 2019 for the
staﬀ reduction and whether, shall we assume more or less the same level also for 2020.
And the third question related to the trend in the Mail and Parcel division, especially as far
as the Mail volumes are concerned, which are the -- in my view the only weak spot of this
set of numbers speciﬁcally relating to the recorded mails.
You've clariﬁed that part of these is due to stop the delivery of some mails and close of
the quarter, it was wondering whether in the second half of the year when there will be
back to normal activity also the public administration, shall we assume that the part of the
volume lost in the ﬁrst half will be recovered in the second half, so there will be an
abnormal amount of volumes in the second half, as the situation normalizes. Thank you.

Page 10 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, thank you Giovanni, yes, we conﬁrm the full dividend policy. The third question on
volumes of registered mail, as I say in my speech, we expect the backlog to reduce of
registered mail, over the next six to 12 months. It depends very much on the speciﬁc item.
Let me be more granular. When it comes to traﬃc ﬁnes, yes, it will resume because
people have gone back to using cars and they will get ﬁne and we will do the delivery of
the ticket.
When it comes to in-line [ph] revenue, so (inaudible) delay in traﬃc in Italy, it's still under
discussion, but is likely that no request oﬃcial with the registered message will be pushed
forward for an addition of few months.
So I don't know, whether this will restart in 2020, we would need to wait a bit more. When
it comes to legal proceedings, courts were closed, and they will something between the
two, so it will come back slowly.
So as Guido say more than 50% of the negative reduction in mail comes from this item.
And you know we -- we're working very hard to get it back over the next, six to 12 months.
Please Guido, on the second question on the cost base.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Sure. Giovanni, on your question I think two points. So in terms of what would be the
number, if I understand correctly of reserves will take this year for early retirements. We
have indicated at the beginning of the year, when we gave you the guidance that we then
stop using. But when, at that point, we said, EUR0.2 billion, so around EUR200 million is a
number expected for this year.
So for the moment, we still working on that assumption, obviously, as you know, we are
working on a new plan and that form part of the plan -- the assumptions that we have
seen also in this presentation is on page 23 for example, we are referring exactly to that
number.
Then if I can give you a little bit more color. Last year, you said correctly, we had over
EUR400 million in this reserves, which we're using this year on the early retirements that
we're doing. The good news there is that the retirements are coming as a price, so as a
cost that is lower than what we expected. So that reserves a bit of ﬂexibility in terms of
numbers that we can do, and the usage of that measure.

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Thank you very much, very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Okay. The next question is from Alberto Cordara, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. please
Alberto.

Page 11 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Q - Alberto Cordara

{BIO 7441341 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, good afternoon. My ﬁrst question is related to the performance of ﬁnancial services
and how they articulated in diﬀerent points. The ﬁrst one is yeah -- again, see any capital
gain in the quarter. So if you can clarify as well -- what would be the level expected for the
year. The second one related to third-party products. So that was a quite severe drop in
revenue in this area. But I would assume this is just a temporary eﬀect related to the lockdown.
So can you us a bit of an idea when do you expect arriving is from third-parties to go back
to the original level. And the other question about ﬁnancial services regard to the net
interest income, which looks incredibly resilient. And I don't know, what to make of it
because I need to be honest, I think we -- my understanding from you in the past is that
this would have been under pressure. Maybe this year, you will receive 1.5 billion in the
share, if I remember correctly. But things do seem to be doing much better than
expected. So I don't know, if you can clarify a bit when, ﬁnally, we will see this margin
pressure. And if we are going to see, because to me -- this actually looks very good news.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then I just wanted touch basis on the question my colleagues before about the long-term
aﬀect of cost reduction initiatives. So we all know the cost is very high potential of revenue
optimization across diﬀerent businesses. But it seems to me, the cost cutting (inaudible)
gain increasing (inaudible). So if you can just comment a bit more on this, on this
speciﬁcation of this is before the update that you want to provide in Q3. But any
additional color would be -- is really helpful. And then my very last question is. If you can
clarify bit more what is your reliance of -- to see revenues from Amazon and how this is
evolved over time. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. I would may be take the high level portion of the ﬁve questions and then hand over
to Guido, for more detail answers.
Yes, keeping the current gain Guido will give you the details. The loan mortgages and
third-party, it's clearly very important source of revenue is free for Poste. And we're very
pleased that both the month of June and the month of July, the engine has restarted -restarting the engine means having our consultants to start reviewing the client base,
pushing the calls, making the meeting, and selling the products. With these running
some, let's say ﬁne tuning issues in terms of -- you know, third-party providers. So we have
started a performance review of our third-party providers which are always judged by us
both in terms of time and weakness of reply and obviously spread and pricing.
And I think, that is reviewed and some potential decision, we will take on the back of the
review, will give an additional boost to the business. Last question on Amazon. As you
know that we don't disclose the oﬃcial ﬁgures of the contract and the revenues. All I can
tell you is that probably two things in summary the share of our B2C business, both in
terms of volumes and revenues of Amazon. It is never been so low. It is still signiﬁcant. But
it's -- going down on a quarter-by-quarter basis. And the second is that as we do
anticipated that we have several clients that are growing in this space of B2C.

Page 12 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Guido mentioned China which is six times last year and in several days, in the last few
weeks, there where our top daily delivery client. We have the unique partnership with
(inaudible) and client base is growing steadily. And this is also shown not only by the
volume of our B2C business. But the staggering growth of our last mail, B2C deliveries by
Postini. So the -- what I said in my -- at the beginning of my call, what we planned, we
deliver in February '18 to increase our presence in B2C translated into large 700 million
CapEx in sorting center. We have one operating, we have two come in over the next six
months. One, larger than the one (inaudible). And this is clearly giving us a very strong
competitive edge, this is mainly automated and is fast and cheap.
And then the last mail and the last mail delivery by Postini which is clearly unique to Poste.
You know, we are seeing an increase and we are forecasting an increase for 2020, which
is above 50% increase, over last year in terms of number of parcel delivered by Postini. So
this is the high-level and Guido you want to take.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure, Alberto. So on the ﬁrst one is very quick and simple, as I said in my speech, we have
basically realized all the capital gains for the year that we had be accounted for it at the
end of the year because it close forward contracts and then we will book within -- there
will be accounted then into Q4.
For interest income well, ﬁrst, maybe on loan and mortgage, I can give you a little bit
more color. And what we highlighted is that the volumes came down, especially at the
beginning of the lock-down, they started recovering well, although, that's we -- may be
mentioned when we talk over the last three months. You remember that we specify that
we also suﬀered a bit from volumes restriction from our partners.
All of that is now gone. We ﬁnally think that both our commercial activities and our
partners are back on track and volumes reﬂect that. So if I look at the volumes for June
and July, in terms of daily sales, those are absolutely in-line -- are actually above last year
and in line with the original budget that we have for this period of time, what we have
planned.
Then moving on to interest and interest income, we said that we weren't surprised by the
resiliency of our NII. We were a bit less surprised, I think, because as we always say, we are
quite actively manage our portfolio, we managed by the EUR12 billion that we have to
buy, as a combination of new cash in ﬂowing and the expiry of existing bonds and
anticipation of close or expiry.
So all of that together implied a 12 billion of purchases, which we did at an average of 1.7%
when rates in the same period, were at 1.17% and that I think testiﬁes our ability to take
good market opportunities. So much [ph], so that we are already starting securing some
of the capital gains for next year, as we believe rates and spreads are extremely low at the
moment. And so we can pay [ph] good market opportunities. On costs, going back to
page 23 of the presentation upon today.

Page 13 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

I think, you have pretty much everything in there. One, so if we look at performance
related, as I said some eﬀect -- some good eﬀect in the quarter 65 million. They will
amount to about EUR100 million for the rest of the year, but we think none of this will
continue into next year. Because we think that commercial activity will go back to
normality. And therefore we will pay our sales force for that. For headcount ﬂexibility,
that's where you have the bulk of the savings for the long run, as we said EUR100 million
applied for the ﬁrst half of the year, there is another half - for the next half of the year. So
now EUR100 million, and this is then something we will stay with us, given that which we
have a 5,000 FTEs less to account for.
So going further down, we said that we had about EUR75 million of other measures, and
the majority of that, as I said was full [ph] payments and other activities that are not
coming back, nor in the second half, nor in the future in 2021. So that's more one-oﬀ. And
then I think, the other good news is that we indicated EUR15 million of other discretionary
costs, we said -- that this number is for the quarter. So you can pretty much multiply for
the next two quarters to come and we believe this is a number that will stay with us. So
EUR15 million is a good number, EUR15 million in a quarter is a good number for the years
to come. I hope this is clear enough.

Q - Alberto Cordara

{BIO 7441341 <GO>}

This is a very clear. Thank you very much to both for the very good answer. Thank you very
much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
And the next question is from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you Massi. And good afternoon, Guido. Good afternoon, Matteo. I have a few
questions. So ﬁrst of all, if you can help us get some color on what's happening with
quality [ph] of Postepay now clearly at the beginning of the year, it was a big focus at your
end. But I guess because of COVID, this has been pushed a bit forward. So how should
we think about that, what are the timelines, any deadlines you have, any color on that
would be very helpful.
The second question I have is -- how should we think about the -- what is the strategic
review of real asset portfolio, I mean are we talking about your real estate portfolio or
what is the strategic review, that would be very helpful. And thirdly is for next year, I mean,
you mentioned that you have already started thinking about securing capital gains for
2021.
I mean if I remember correctly, in your plan, it was about EUR100 million expectation, am I
correct or are we talking about like a bit, 200 million -- 300 million of capital gains for
next year. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}
Page 14 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Yes. We don't have the lot of data point on QR code because it was going to market with
door-to-door sale in March. So we've now resuming the marketing eﬀorts and anyway this
is -- it's a long-term proposition to win clients on the acquiring side. So for us -- it's a -- an
entry tool to penetrate the acquiring client base. On the question of the capital gain, we
are not yet -- we're not deﬁned the total ﬁgure. But maybe what we can tell you at this
point in time is that is going to be less than EUR200 million for next year. But we will see -you would see in the -- (inaudible) going to present of the year, the plan at the end of the
year.
The second question, I would like to Guido.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

So on capital -- on real estate, what I can tell you that we started in -- what I said in my
speech is that we started a review of the entire real estate portfolio. And in doing that, we
also realize that there was a mismatch between the residual life that we had accounted for
and the residual life that was actual today.
So we just aligned the residual life of our real estate assets with the one we accounted for
-- with the actual one. And this resulted in less D&A, so unless amortization of about
EUR120 million yearly. And this will (inaudible) to stay, maybe on the more strategic review
I'll ask --.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah, I think on the more strategic on the question. Ashik it's -- we did not focus on the
topic in the ﬁrst three years, (inaudible) now would be a bit of housekeeping. And we
have started the project to understand which asset, we want to keep for our business,
which asset that we don't consider we need for our business. And in that case, how we
can extract by the -- over the course of the next two to three years.
And this for something that we will present again in the last quarter with the updated
delivery 2020.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, that's very clear. Thanks a lot (inaudible). And very clear presentation today. Thank
you.

Operator
The next question is from Gian Luca Ferrari. Mediobanca. Please Gian Luca.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yes, hi, good afternoon, Matteo. (inaudible). )The ﬁrst one is on postal products. I
remember Matteo during the last conference call you seeing the bit cautious on the
EUR1.6 billion, EUR1.8 billion guidance also because we were at the beginning of the
lockdown. But looking at these numbers, in Q2 you even made a positive net inﬂows in
Page 15 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

postal service in spite two months out of three of lockdown. EUR1.5 billion in the ﬁrst half
is the best semester ever for these products.
So I was wondering, if you are now turning a bit more constructive, that you could expect
something in the mid-to-top part of the range. So, probably something in between the
EUR1.7 billion to EUR1.8 billion, if you can give a bit of comment on this? The second one
is on pricing pressure, in the B2C parcel business, apparently [ph] the revenue per unit is
absolutely stable year-on-year. So I was wondering, if it is a matter of lack of pricing
pressure or more a higher average spending from Italiane. So probably, they are buying
something more value added, and the cost of shipping is also bit higher. And this is
explaining why the cost per unit is basically stable.
The third is probably more of Guido, I was trying to reconcile all the moving parts of
solvency of the Poste in the ﬁrst half and I was wondering if you can give us the capital
generation gross of the dividend accrual at Poste EBITDA in the ﬁrst semester. I was
wondering if you do something like 10% or a ﬁgure like this? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah, I think there is in the middle of the lockdown in May on Postal Savings Gian Luca.
Yes, we were more cautious on revenues for this year. So we were clearly on the very
bottom of the range of the EUR1.6 billion to 1.8 billion. I think we can be more optimistic,
but we still have six months to go. So you know, certainly one can consider that -- it can be
something probably in the middle of the range. Pricing pressure, I think, it's an interesting
question, because 1x to put in the future. The fact that now Poste Italiane is number one
for volumes and revenues. B2C, play in Italy. Which clearly was nowhere, the case -- three
years ago. And when you're a number one player, maybe you start looking at margins,
choosing clients in a better position versus a player has to enter the market.
So we adding to this speciﬁc position of Poste, which explains, I think, part of the good
news of resilience in pricing, is more temporary, there was a shortage of last mile
capability doing the lock-down. And therefore, on the players had the opportunity maybe
to have a bit more room for maneuver with clients and this is more clearly related to the
speciﬁc period. But our roadmap in last-mile and B2C is -- I think very clear and very
robust, Guido mentioned the partnership with Milkman, which is now going all across Italy
in serving clients also in segments, that we are not covering before.
The footprint of the third-party for parcel delivery and pickup and aﬀecting (inaudible) the
recurring product is growing very fast. So Poste today can count on over 20,000 pickup
and return-point [ph] in Italy. So if you're a client and wants to do e-commerce, nobody
can oﬀer 20,000 points. If you look around Europe in the Parcel space, our competitors
they took a 100 of pickup points, we are putting on the table and growing over 20,000
outlets. And therefore, you know, a client advance to enter B2C ﬁnes in Poste, quite
unique partner. And adding to that we have changed our model of the coverage. As I
mentioned, in my presentation, so we now have a team which is speciﬁcally dedicated to
industry focus clients. So we don't divide any longer our 1,200 sales force by region,
which is the physical old-style, that all organized since 1st July by client industry. And this - I'm sure will bring much more client penetration. On the D-side and then you know, the
Page 16 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

roadmap on the product is also putting as a client, as the real client the retailer. So we
have an additional services, we are giving to the retailer because the better we serve the
ﬁnal client, the healthier would be the platform of the client that give us the opportunity to
deliver to that ﬁnal clients.

FINAL

So we're focusing a lot and we can see that the real client, the retailer that receives the
parcel at home, On the third question, on insurance, yes Guido, please.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Maybe just to give you -- just a couple of numbers on the speciﬁc point leverage price
index on page 13 Gian Luca to close on B2C.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think you're referring to the fact that we see a sharp decline in average price index. You
need to bear in mind that -- that decline is all due to the mix of products, not to the tariﬀ
that we are applying to clients. Actually all the main clients, so all the -- at least the ﬁrst ﬁve
better team have actually carried up -- but down. So, the movement, you see there is
because we're doing much more volumes in B2C. And because as I said in my speech,
some of the volume growth you seem to B2B is because corporate clients are spending
over this period, more parcels to clients, to end clients, to take [ph] clients which are
normally smaller packets. And therefore we don't (inaudible). But not which is just a
diﬀerent product.
So going to solvency, I think what you're asking me, is the fact that we are not paying
dividend from PosteVita to Poste Italiane we having so far, has a positive eﬀect on
solvency. Yes, you're right. We are taking into account that you need to remember that we
only pay 50%, dividend payout to PosteVita -- to a strong PosteVita to Poste Italiane. So
that accounted last year to EUR340 million. So if you look at something similar to that this
year that accounts roughly 4% percentage points of solvency, which therefore as of today
in the solvency that and so. Obviously and when we pay the dividend that will be taken
out.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
So 4% [ph] is the capital generation in the semester with no dividend?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

We accounted for rates running so now there are accounted for it running. At the moment
-- each month if a little bit and the moment we decided not to -- we take the decision not
to pay it. Then we did stock accounting for the dividend basis. And so you have a positive
eﬀect on solvency at that point.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
But 4% is for the semester or its annualized?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Page 17 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

No. 4% is for the entire month.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
For one month?

FINAL

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

No for the entire dividend that was not paying.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Okay. Okay. It's clear. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I wish it was for a month.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yeah.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

You're happy? Are you okay, Gian Luca, are you okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yeah, it's pretty clear. Thank you so much.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Anna Maria Benassi. And there has been submitted by - via
platform. So I will read it. Consolidation Italian banking sector has started to lower spend
in the Italian insurance sector too. Do you see any challenges in the opportunities for
Poste Italiane, would this change your partnerships in ﬁnancial products? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Never say, never. But I don't anticipate any rule of Poste Italiane in the consolidation of the
baking of the insurance sectors. It's not in our roadmap from a strategic standpoint. Our
strategy is to -- possible to our clients, it is really the value we had -- (inaudible) for the
number of clients to the multi-channel ability that we have to reach them. And I think, this
is steel, in-line we're delivered 2020 to the best option for our shareholders.
The increase even outside the ﬁnancial products of our gross selling capability and the
improvement of the user experience of our clients, in our products. Can give much more
Page 18 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

results that any strategic transaction. In terms of partners, the second part of the question
as I said we keep them in under close scrutiny. I'm happy to say, which I forecast, in the
previous question that in July, we reach record month ever in salary backed loans.

FINAL

So we're adding the new product steady to our product range. And we think this is an
interesting development because we see a lot of upside in that speciﬁc item and more
partnership potential yes that -- on with our partners on played like, rolling, supporting us.

Operator
Thank you. And the last question is from Federico Braga from UBS.

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, hello, good afternoon, everyone. Sorry just two quick follow-ups. The ﬁrst one is on
the interest income, the ﬁnancial services division on the resiliency of this line. Big driver
of this resiliency since we actually that has been the in-related to volumes, so current
accounts have being growing quite nicely especially in the second quarter of the year.
So I just wanted to understand how much of this growth was structural or just related to
the overall macro environment, and if that conversion of clients should increase in the
coming quarters, could we see some volume decline and therefore some pressure to
interest income at that point. And the second question is on the -- if you could give some
guidance please on the average number of employees in the second half of the year has
been 125,000 in the ﬁrst half, but if you could give us some guidance for the second half
of the year as well. Thank you very much.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Excuse me, Federico, can you say it again the second one place (inaudible) please.

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Sorry, yes. The second one is just if you could give some guidance on the average
number of employees of FTEs in the second half of the year. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Please Guido.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

So on the ﬁrst part of your question, I will refer to what I said before. As I said, the interest,
net interest income held up thanks to two main things and one you refer to again now. So
volumes as we say here on when we talk about the TFAs on page 17, we have 5.7 billion of
extra deposits on our accounts and that was obviously invested in BCP's at average EUR1.7
billion. I was referring to before. So that helped us so you now asking how much of that is
stable, do you expect that some will be withdrawn and therefore your NII will go down if I
understand correctly. Is that the question well on one side a bit I wish will be used for
investment and some of the commercial activity will be done, exactly in that direction to
Page 19 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

use some of this liquidity for investors -- investments and therefore looking for high
margin products.
What, I can tell you that obviously we invest in maturities that take this into account. So we
have now a lot of years, many years of history of the behavior of our clients. So we have an
expectation of how much of that may leave Bank account to become an investment and
therefore that is invested in shorter term maturities, and shorter return in the bonds, which
have obviously a much yield, which is barely positive if that.
So in a nutshell, I wouldn't expect that trend to have a negative impact. If you could add
that in to a long economic crisis, then there will be some outﬂows related to the economic
crisis. Also, that is taking into account of the overall maturity of investments also takes into
account there's some outﬂows cannot be directly to investments, but also for
consumption.
But that is already part of the way we invest. So in a normal -- so in a crisis that we are
ready envisaging for some part. That is already taking into consideration. In terms of
expectations on FTEs at year-end. As I said, we had a very good start. Obviously that was
driven by the fact that we have to hire less people during the crisis because we did not
need as many people especially in delivery.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our original target is 125,000ish but again, we have to see how the second half develops
and how will -- and this is, as you remember, the target we provided you at the beginning
of the year, which was higher than that and therefore it takes into account what the work
we've done so far in the ﬁrst half.
Also I would refer back to what I was saying before. We also have the opportunity of
having a reserve that we took last year for early retirements, which is working well
because as I was saying before the early retirements. We've done so far, are happening at
a good pace. Not as much as we have anticipated because the lock-down has slowed us
down in that exercise, but the ones that we've done. We're doing it at much better cost.
So that means that we have more ability to more ﬂexibility for the second half.

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
We have -- we have absolutely the very last question from Manuela Meroni who
connected back. So it has, give her the chance to ask your question. So Please Manuela.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, I have a couple of questions remaining. The ﬁrst one is on the postal
savings the net inﬂow has in positive for the second-quarter renewal. So I'm wondering
what you can -- we can expect for the remaining part of the year and if you had any
update on the renewal of the agreement with GDP. And lastly, curiosity, domestic
Page 20 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

(inaudible) brought it about, the potential investment of Poste Italiane in (inaudible)
Italiane. I'm wondering if you could elaborate on the rationale of the potential
investments -- and on the size of the investment if I may.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Yes. Total sale inﬂows were quite impressive, I think that clearly we're happy. But
one should not the probably to taken by in excess of enthusiasm in (inaudible) that one,
there was clearly a backlog of the months of the lock-down of our consultants that we are
not able to direct clients on Postal Savings. And two, we had very good product oﬀering
and this is something that we hope it's going to be there in the future.
As far as, as the Poste Italiane [ph] is concerned, I think, what we saw in the press we were
surprised, -- it's not part of the growth not of all spend -- conversation. The all new
contracts we had in the phase of our manage account in the insurance company. And as
you know we diversify our 140 assets that we hold to manage technical reserves of our life
contracts and we have the several asset manager, infrastructure plans, we invested into
and maybe some of those funds are involved in that transaction. And so in a way -- as the
subscriber of those plans in the past one can have to say, (inaudible) to the asset, but
that's the only -- link I can see. And now that leading the press (inaudible) ﬁnal outcome is
in company, maybe it doesn't belong in longer-even to be infrastructure funds. (inaudible)
look forward private asset.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you very much everybody and thank you for the time as usually (inaudible) Poste.
And we're going to do our online growth show, but as usual myself, the CFO and
especially IR Massimiliano Riggi, where all available anytime for any additional questions
you might have. Thank you very much.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining. The conference is now over. You may
disconnect your telephone. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
Page 21 of 22



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

