Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jean-Jacques Henchoz , Chief Executive Officer
Sven Althoff , Member of the Executive Board

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
James Shuck, Analysrt
Jonathan Urwin, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Sami Taipalus , Analyst
Vikram Gandhi, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good morning ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you to today's Hannover Re International
Conference Call on January 1, 2020 Property and Casualty Treaty Renewals. For your
information, this conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to hand the call over to your host today, Mr. Jean-Jacques
Henchoz, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Good morning everyone and thank you very much for joining this call. I'm joined by the
team here. Sven Althoff will comment in more details on the renewals for 1/1, but just to
get started a few comments on my side. First of all, on the general market conditions, on
the presentation on slide 4, a few comments. Generally I would say that demand for
reinsurance continue to be strong and we saw some good momentum in terms of global
market conditions, some improvement, which reflected the loss activity in the previous
years, but also some increased underwriting discipline in the allocation of capital from the
market players and some tightening of terms. At the same time one has to acknowledge
that global capacity remained sufficient to cover the needs of the reinsurance market.
There were some withdrawals which you are aware of at Lloyd's in Asia, in particular, and
alternative capital had some challenges to face, some trapped capital which affected the
retrocession market. But generally traditional capacity was available and they were even

Page 1 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

increases in terms of available capacity. So I would say a balanced supply-demand
relationship with good underwriting discipline and some momentum on pricing.
On the primary side, we've seen as well some improved conditions and some
momentum across the world, particularly in North America. And as you know, we have a
large book of business on the proportional side. So this will lead to some positive impact
on the expected profitability of proportional treaties and our clients in America have
reported back that they are seeing substantial increase, sometimes double digit in some
of the long tail lines of business. Nat cat market remained stable to slightly improving from
our standpoint, this is a bit below our expectations. We had some large losses, of course,
'17 and '18. '19 was a bit milder in comparison, closer to the average, but still a loss burner,
which is higher than historic average in the last three years. So, the movement up is a bit
more moderate. Retro capacity was a bit tighter and led to some tightening on the
reinsurance side, but retro capacity was available. As far as we are concerned, we are
very happy with the outcome of the negotiations on our retrocession cover and we'll be
able to reflect the slightly increased terms in our reinsurance programs. In nat cat, of
course, as you know, on April 1, we have the Asian Japanese renewals in July 1. You have a
number of North American treaties being renewed. So we'll see over the next few
months how the nat cat business evolves, there might be some increased momentum,
but it's early days. Generally, I would say, my perception is that the industry proved its
resilience and was able to react on losses. And generally we see some positive
momentum, but certainly not as pronounced as for example in primary lines in North
America, but good movement of global market conditions. Let me maybe comment now
more specifically on our own results. And I move to page 6, of the slide deck. As you
know, the 1st of January is an important renewal date. This is roughly two-third of our P&C
business being renewed and I'd say that we're satisfied with the outcome of the renewal
season. We were very well positioned from the beginning in the market as many clients
were keen to continue to expand their relationship with us. And we were often a go-tomarket when it comes to new business. There were few withdrawals, as I mentioned and
we're able to attract some new business at satisfactory terms. We managed again to
have a strong increase in our premiums level at satisfactory terms and rate increased and
reduced commissions were more frequent this renewal than in the previous year. Having
maintained the underwriting discipline, we tried to focus on our key clients as far as
growth is concerned. We managed capacity diligently and had of course some
negotiations where the result was below our own benchmarks and risk appetite with the
client, some business as well. As mentioned, nat cat -- the nat cat market was stable to
slightly improving, and in economic terms, the proportion of our nat cat exposure is in line
with the recent situation, although we've grown a little bit there. Retrocession, I
mentioned already, we renewed our whole program in line with exposure growth and we
have slightly higher risk-adjusted prices, but as mentioned, we believe we can reflect this
change in pricing into our own pricing and we were able to do so on 1st of January and
expect to see the same in the next few deadlines for renewals. And last but not least, I
think the low-cost ratio, the cost leadership, which characterized Hannover Re for many
years, continues to be a key competitive factor and allows us to, to continue to grow our
book of business. So this is just one part of the mix, but continues to be important to be
competitive in the market. So, overall, I'd say satisfying outcome. Maybe nat cat a little bit
less movement than initially expected. But we should see in the coming months if this
gains a little bit traction. But overall, we were able to meet our profitability targets and at

Page 2 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

the same time could grow and expand our market share I give the floor now to Sven to
give you a bit more detail on our own portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Very good. Thank you, Jean-Jacques, good morning from my side as well. I will start on
slide 8, where you can see that out of our almost EUR15 billion of P&C premium, EUR10.5
billion is what we would call traditional treaty reinsurance, i.e. the proportional and nonproportional covers for portfolios of our ceding companies. We are today not reporting
about the facultative or the structured and ILS activities we have. And out of the EUR10.5
billion of traditional premium, two-thirds, i.e., a little more than EUR7 billion came up for
renewal at January 1. As you can see the EUR7 billion portfolio has a broad diversified split
across all lines, all territories, and is therefore, a good indicator about the quality of our
overall business. The highest percentage of renewals from January 1 point of view we
have from our European scenes [ph] and out of some of our specialties like Credit and
Surety and Marine business where more than 90% of our business is renewing at 1/1. On
slide 9, we are showing you from a regional footprint what we will renew later in the year,
the EUR3.5 billion we are not reporting about today. As you can see, territories like the US,
Australia or the Japanese business, which is a significant part of the EUR726 million we are
showing for the region here are coming up for renewals later at 1/4, 1/6, 1/7. These are the
territories which experienced significant losses on the natural catastrophe side in 2019. So
just to name a few, Dorian, Faxai, Hagibis and the Australian bush fire, and we do expect
higher average increases from those loss impacted areas than we could observe on
average at January 1 renewal. But let me explain the January 1 renewal in a little more
detail now. On page 10 you can see that the bulk of our growth is actually coming from
our renewal book. We lost EUR744 million of business due to cancellations or due to
restructuring and we gained new business of EUR810 million on the new business, or out
of those restructures, but the bulk of the growth, i.e. EUR919 million is coming from our
renewal book. This of course is a book we know well. In many cases we had for many
years. And from that point of view, it is very, very pleasing that we could show the growth
from that solid base at January 1 renewals. In total, we are reporting EUR1 billion more in
premium, which translates into a currency adjusted increase of 14%. On slide 11 you can
see the various reporting lines, what's their premium development and the price changes.
The overall price change at January 1 renewal was 2.3%. This compares with 0.9% from
last year's report on the January renewals, so it's pointing in the right direction. Most
regions and product lines are now trending positive. In addition, we can observe increases
and sometimes very significant increases in many insurance markets, which of course
directly translates into more premium for our proportional business. And out of the
combination of the higher reinsurance pricing higher shares or some new shares, hence
the underlying price increases on the primary insurance business, we could grow our
premium by the 14%. I have already mentioned. On page 12, you can see the difference
between the increases on the proportional and on the non-proportional business. The
proportional business overall increased by 2.1%. This was 0.8% a year ago. And the nonproportional business increased by 2.9%. Again, a year ago, it was 1.1%. Overall, you see
much more pluses than a year ago. The reporting at the time was much more mixed. And
as you can see now, most of those lines are actually in the positive territory with only two
minus areas, but I will report on those in a little while. From a non-proportional
perspective, slide 13 shows you that we had now three consecutive years of increases.
We have regained some ground. So the pricing on the non-proportional side overall is

Page 3 of 16



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

now at 2011 level again, which of course is a good development. But you can also see that
we are not quite at 2012 levels yet. As you will remember, 2011 was a particularly heavy
year from a natural catastrophe point of view and triggered some significant repricing at
the time, but at least we have managed to get to the 2000 level, pre-losses level again.
Let me now come to the details in the various reporting lines, starting on page 14. Our
North American portfolio showed some elements of growth. This is driven by mainly the
reinsurance price increases, but also from the underlying insurance pricing. We managed
to take the advantage of certain capacity withdrawing, which we saw particularly in the
long-tail class of business, where there was less supply than in previous years and we
could selectively write some more of the long-tail exposures, again mostly in areas which
we have supported historically. There were also some new business opportunities, as you
can see. The most significant came from Canada where we have supported client on their
motor business on a proportional basis, which we felt was attractive due to the underlying
strong rate increases on the insurance side. On the casualty reinsurance side, we saw
more restructuring of programs than in previous years. So the retentions were slightly up
at times, clients also introduced annual aggregate deductibles and that's the reason why
despite the rate increases and despite the increase in shares you see relatively impact on
the volume side, because clients decided, based on the new reinsurance pricing, to retain
some of the business net, which they had previous -- seen in previous years. In the
reporting category, Latin America, Iberian Peninsula and agricultural business, the overall
price increase was 2.1%, but we have seen a significant difference here on the agricultural
side at least in certain territories. As you may have observed yourself, there was a
significant swine fever influencer in China, which impacted the profitability on that class of
business in 2019. And due to a significant repricing of that portfolio, we managed to
increase our share substantially on what we felt are now attractive reinsurance terms and
conditions. That is a bulk of the increase we are showing under this reporting category.
But we also had some growth from the property and casualty side in Latin America. Here
the main drivers are the continued strong underlying insurance growth in those
developing markets and some increased premiums, particularly in Chile, following the
social unrests, which we had in the autumn and winter of this year. In Germany, Switzerland
and Austria and Italy, we had a satisfying renewal outcome. From a pricing perspective this
portfolio was very, very stable, as expected, I can say. But we have managed to maintain
our shares, despite original signs that cedings may keep a little more net than they did in
the previous years, but they kept our share stable. We managed to find from new clients,
which is a very remarkable development given that our market share, particularly in
Germany is already at such a high level. And what we could also see is some meaningful
price increases in Italy. Italy had some hail and flood events in 2019, which we will not see
on our major loss list, because it was more a frequency than a severity problem, but it
nonetheless led to a repricing of the business and we could take advantage from that
development. The UK and London markets portfolio showed a very significant increase in
reinsurance pricing. This had a number of drivers, some of which, of course, were result
driven, but we could also see some capacity-driven drivers with syndicates at least
partially closing down or closing down in their entirety. And so that's led to a situation
where there was less supply than in previous years, and pleasingly this translated into
increased reinsurance pricing. We have on the London market book written a relatively
stable portfolio. So we used the opportunity of the price increases to work on our
portfolio composition. On some of the casualty classes we de-emphasized some of the
lower, more frequency-driven layers, so therefore we didn't increase our shares
substantially. And the same goes for the UK motor business, which is the line that saw the
most consistent rate increases. The driver for those rate increases of course was the
Page 4 of 16



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

second Ogden rate change within the last three years from minus 0.75% to minus 0.25%,
which was below the expected change in the Ogden rate for many market participants
and translated into increases on motor excess-of-loss programs of 20-plus percent on a
regular basis. Again, we more or less concentrated on our renewal book and did not write
significantly more layers or more programs, but stayed with our clients, which we have
supported in the last couple of years. The last very significant driver behind the strong
premium increase in this reporting category is our increased support behind our Lloyd's
platform. You know that we purchased Argenta in 2017. We had kept our capacity behind
the Argenta underwriting relatively stable in the initial years, but we now saw the
opportunity to increase our position on the organic business, which from a timing point of
view, given the very strong increases on the insurance side seemed the right moment in
time to do so, plus the fact that we have invited a new casualty team to join Argenta, and
they will come with a substantial renewal portfolio. The incumbent is no longer writing that
class of business. So we would expect that we can get this business at stable or improved
terms in line with the rest of the market development in long-tail classes. Continental
Europe and Africa is similarly stable as the rest of Europe with some mixed developments
country by country. Overall, the price development was one of the few areas which still
had a slight minus with minus 0.9%. We continue to write a stable portfolio, but also used
the opportunity to emphasize some countries, some clients a little more than in the past
and we also decided to discontinue with programs that had further price deterioration,
particularly in Eastern Europe. So therefore, you can see that when you look at the balance
of new versus cancelled business with EUR3 million, this is a very, very stable portfolio with
some element of cycle management, but the bulk of the growth is coming from our
renewal portfolio, where we could particularly benefit in the increased underlying volume,
which mainly results from the better insurance pricing that our clients can achieve on our
proportional book of business. In Asia, Australia and Middle East, we had mainly the
ASEAN countries and China renewing at January 1. Australia is more a July 1 renewal
season and Japan and Korea is more a April 1 renewal season. On the ASEAN countries,
the development was more positive than in previous years, we could actually experience
some slight rate increases. Here you may have followed that some reinsurers either had
to reduce their portfolios due to rating situations they have or discontinued their business
entirely. We were able to benefit from that development by picking up some of the
shares that became available on programs which are priced in line with our expectations
and tap the market in general, because this territory was softening last year, but has now
turned the corner into a slight hardening. In China, we could benefit mostly by -- from the
organic growth of our ceding companies. The Chinese insurance market is still growing
significantly. Our portfolio is very much concentrated on the top 5 companies in the
Chinese market. They are growing in line with the markets and therefore you can see that
the bulk of our growth is actually coming from volume, i.e. underlying organic business. But
in addition to that we could also broaden some of those relationships with the top 5
insurance companies in China. So, overall, a very pleasing outcome of the Asian renewal
season. This is all fully in line with what we told you about our APAC initiative during the
Investors Day in October. So we are in line with expectations on that side. And as I said
before, with particularly Japan and partly Australia, we will have renewals later in the year.
Given the losses, we do expect very positive pricing momentum on those future
renewals. Credit, surety and political risk, again a very stable renewal, the pricing was
more or less at last year's level. We did see some price increases on the non-proportional
book of business. This was partly Thomas Cook related. We also found some new clients,
15 to be precise, which again is pleasing, given our significant market share also in this
portfolio and just demonstrating that our client relationship activities are bearing fruit. You
Page 5 of 16



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

may wonder why this line has not seen more significant rate increases due to the Thomas
Cook situation, but here only a few market players were impacted. Those programs are
seeing increases and this reporting line, despite Thomas Cook, is making solids in the 90s
combined ratio for our portfolio in 2019, despite the loss. So it shows you the resilience of
the pricing, even in a situation where we have a slight loss like that. Aviation and marine,
some very mixed picture. Let me start with marine. Here the market is still very
competitive. We are now at a period of relatively benign losses on the marine and
offshore energy side. From a loss point of view, there was no reason, there is no technical
reason why prices should go up, and we could certainly see that this line still has
significant overcapacities for some market participants trying to increase their market
share. So on the marine and offshore energy side, we can report about a stable pricing, at
best, slightly down, and due to that we also Part 12 lost some business on the marine side,
because we felt that pricing came to a level which was no longer attractive to us. Aviation
is a completely different story. You will all have followed the losses on both the aviation,
the product liability and on the space side we had in 2019. This hit the market, which came
through a period, a very long period of rate reductions and we guided before that we felt
that the aviation pricing was at a pricing level which was not sustainable over the long
term. And in line with our expectations given those losses, we now had a significant
repricing exercise on both the insurance and on the reinsurance side. On the reinsurance
side, we managed to bring down ceding commission levels back to 2016 levels, and on
the excess of loss side, even on loss-free programs, the starting point for negotiations
was a double-digit rate increase. So in aviation, we took the opportunity to regain a little
bit of the market share which we had voluntarily lost over the last couple of years, So the
growth you are seeing in this reporting category is more or less exclusively coming from
our aviation practice. Last but not least, the natural catastrophe business. Jean-Jacques
already commented on that a little bit in his initial remarks. Overall nat cat was relatively
flat. There was relatively little business renewing that had losses in 2019. On the business
that came up for renewal with losses, price increases were 10% or higher. So, the market
was reacting on that, but the main bulk of the loss impacted business will come later in
the year. The only area where we can say that even on loss-free business, we had more
meaningful rate increases was the US nat cat business where on average on loss-free
business we saw increases between 3% and 8%. With that I would end my report and
hand over to you, Jean-Jacques.

Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you very much Sven for this overview. Let me come now to the guidance for 2020,
first showing the usual overview on our expected profitability. From a financial year point
of view, as mentioned Part 12 Part 13 there has been some momentum in the market and
the profitability level has slightly improved. So the overall picture looks a little bit better in
terms of volume. We have a number of markets and segment where we continue to be
able to grow, as we've seen. We're trying to be a little bit more diligent when we are at
the required profitability, but not exceeding that level when it comes to renewing the
book of business. But generally an overall picture which is satisfactory from our own point
of view. And in terms of guidance, I can simply confirm that the guidance communicated
already for 2020 is confirmed. Clearly, on the gross written premium, we seem to be able
to exceed what we set ourselves for 1/1. But I would want to see a little bit more into the
year, we have some important renewal. The structured reinsurance business has not been
included yet and we need to have full visibility on that. And last but not least, the life and

Page 6 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

health business needs to be reviewed. So it's a little bit early to change. For me, the
guidance is confirmed and there is good confidence to reach these targets. Return on
investment is at 2.7%, as you know, taking into account the interest rate level and the
Group net income target is maintained at EUR1.2 billion. We continue to feel that the
dividend guidance for this year is -- can be met. So fully confirmed on all indicators And to
close this introductory part, just a few words on our preliminary figures for 2019. In terms
of gross written premium, we were able to exceed the previous guidance we had set at
10%, as you remember, and we achieved 15%. This is predominantly due to the P&C
business. And we have had real momentum in 2019. The return on investment is expected
to reach 3.5%, which is in excess of the 3.2%, which we mentioned last time, benefiting of
course Part 13 from one-off effects, as you know, which allowed us to improve the
performance on investment managed by Hannover Re. And Group net income is a little
bit higher than the previous guidance at EUR1.28 billion. The combined ratio is higher than
anticipated, this is largely due to the frequency of large losses. In terms of nat cat, we
were more or less within budget, but a number of man-made losses occurred last year.
Thomas Cook was mentioned by Sven a few minutes ago. The credit and surety business
is not protected by our retrocession and that explains that it went a little bit above budget
for our large losses. So 98.2% is the KPI, slightly above our target. We will say more on
these numbers as soon as we're ready, and on March 11, we'll have our con call, where will
give you full details on the figures, but I wanted to share the preliminary key figures for
2019 this morning. With that I close the presentation part and welcome your comments or
questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Operator
We will now begin our question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) The first
question is from Kamran Hossain of RBC. Your line is now open.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, morning everyone. Three questions from me. The first one is just on I guess how price
improvements flow through into profitability. I guess you talked about a 97% combined
ratio last year. Should we expect some improvement there or are there any kind of
business mix impacts that we should think about when we're thinking about our numbers?
And the second question is, I kind of understand the comments around growth and you
agree 14, you're still aiming for 5, and you've said that you want to see how the year
progresses. Could you maybe talk about the pipeline for structured business? Do you
think it's as strong as it was last year, or do you think actually there were some mitigating
things here that could offset what looks like a very strong start to the year? Thank you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Happy to take those. From the business mix point of view, we have no significant
developments. So the 1st of January renewals would certainly confirm our target of 97% or
lower combined ratio. So, no change from that point of view. Advanced solutions, we have
a good pipeline, also some successes already for the '20 year. This year the pipeline is
more full with smaller transactions. The drivers are still very much the same like in previous
Page 7 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

years; those are solvency capital model-related drivers, but it's no significant single
transaction we would be able to support on, but a good flow of smaller transactions. So
also a reasonable start on the advanced solutions structured reinsurance practice, in line
with our expectations.

FINAL

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Thanks for the color, Sven.

Operator
The next question is from Jonathan Urwin of UBS. Your line is now open.

Q - Jonathan Urwin
Hi guys, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Two please. So firstly, could you
please provide a bit more detail on how your retro renewal has gone, any key changes in
coverage terms and conditions and prices would be great? And then secondly, what level
of price improvement would you need to see on your books to offset the higher retro
costs and claims inflation as well? It feels like 205 [ph] bps is a good starting point for the
2020. But based on our expectation it doesn't really lead to much margin improvement as
you're kind of highlighting with the consistent 97% combined or below [ph]. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. On the retro slides, I'm happy to give you a little more detail on our three
main retro covers, on the property side, let me start with our K transaction. Our K
investors are a mix of ILS markets, but also traditional insurance or reinsurance companies.
We could certainly see that the capacity for proportional retro covers was not that well
supported from the ILS market as in previous years. Luckily, we were an outlier in that
trend. So in the end we managed to actually have more capital supporting our K [ph]
transaction than in 2019. This was also required due to the underlying exposure change.
So from that point of view, depending on how you look at it, we have more support from
the capital funding the K transaction. From a proportional session on our portfolio, this
translates into a slightly down transaction, but overall very pleasing. Why are we maybe an
outlier here whilst others did find it more difficult to replace their proportional retro
vehicles? One, we have done it for a very long time. Two, we were told that particularly on
the reporting side, given our long experience, we are seen as best in class. So even if our
loss picture -- result picture is also challenging for those investors, at least we give them
the news in a consistent way and in an early way, which is appreciated by them. So they
would see a very high level of professionalism on our side. And thirdly, they would feel
that given our well diversified K portfolio we are in a very good position to take advantage
of an improving market overall. So that was K. Our aggregate cover on the large loss
portfolio, we could fully place this year. We had a little bit of a shortfall in 2019. But in 2020
we could place what we wanted to place. Retention and pricing on the -- aggregate on
large loss increased in line with our exposure growth. So from a technical point of view, a
relatively stable situation. If you look at it from the absolute numbers, the retention and
the premium is higher. And thirdly, our whole account property protection which is
covering us on and each and every loss basis rather than in the aggregate, here we could
keep our retention stable. The pricing increased in line with the underlying exposure
Page 8 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

increase and we did buy a little more cover than in previous years. So overall, one can say
we managed to renew our covers as in 2019, or on the limit side, even slightly up at prices
which were flattish from a technical exposure development point of view. Are those retro
covers earnings accretive? I mean if you've already summarized the situation, and I
mentioned a number of times that our covers front load in proportion the underlying
growth of our exposure. So the answer is no, they are not more earnings accretive than
they were in the last year. And from that point of view, our situation has not deteriorated
on a net basis, but it has also not improved compared to 2019.

Q - Jonathan Urwin
That's great, thanks very much.

Operator
The next question is from Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca. Your line is now open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thank you very much. So just if I can follow up, is the commentary that
you have provided for the man-made losses. You mentioned Thomas Cook, but again
that was, I assume, already booked in the third quarter and it was actually booked. Is there
any commentary around the fourth quarter Jean-Jacques that would help us understand,
because if you see sort of a 97-ish combined ratio is one of the highest fourth quarter
numbers in recent history of Hannover. Does it indicate the reserve relief change of
approach, does it just indicate that fourth quarter was rather heavy on man-made that you
could flag, if not on nat cat? Just some color would be very, very helpful for us. And just
following up on the retrocession effect, so this 2.3% of pricing, how should we -- I mean is
retrocession going to eat up maybe a few basis points from here, and then the rest goes
into just reserve buildup? How would you like us to think of this 2.3% in relation to the flat
97% please? It could be structured as well, but just wanted to hear your thoughts again.
And thanks for that.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Well, thank you very much. I'll take the first question. We had a large loss budget, a total of
EUR875 million, and we ended roughly at EUR950 million, and this was indeed driven by
man-made. The nat cat budget was close, but within budget, and we were above budget
on man-made. So we are approximately at 109% of the large loss budget. Indeed, you are
right, I mentioned Thomas Cook, but it was actually already booked at Q3. I think the main
driver, if I'm not mistaken, would be the riots in Chile, which contributed to the Q4 results.
We will comment a little bit more in detail when we are on the phone again on March 11,
but I believe this would be the main driver if I'm not mistaken. Sven, any other man-made...

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

We had two fire losses in addition to that, which made it over the EUR10 million large loss
hurdle. So from that point of view, the man-made losses were well over and above the
Q4 budget for man-made losses. And given Hagibis, which we of course had not booked
in Q3, yet there was nothing spare from the nat cat side either.
Page 9 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

But leading over to the second part of your question, I mean there was no change in our
reserving practice. We continue to significantly -- I mean with our very prudent initial
reserving of younger underwriting years, so like in 2019, also in 2020, we will reserve our
2020 underwriting year well above our pricing view -- from that point of view, the 2.3%, I
would say, you can see as giving us confidence that we will be able to achieve our 97%
target on the combined ratio side, but it's not a development that would be significant
enough for us that we would reassess whether the 97% combined is the right target for
us.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from James Shuck of Citigroup. Your line is now open.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good morning. Three questions from my side, please. So if you could just comment
around some trends you're seeing on the social inflation side of things. I am particularly
interested in how things might have developed in Q4, both on proportional book and the
excess-of-loss book, please.
Secondly, in terms of coronavirus, could you just speak a little bit about the rate of
infection and mortality rates that you're experiencing, and put that in context of probable
maximum losses in one and 250 year events, please.
And finally just on the SCR. So the 14% growth in the January renewals, what kind of
growth in SCR do you expect for 2020 please? Thank you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Let me start with the social inflation, mainly from a US casualty perspective where I guess
you are coming from. As we have already reported in our Q3 call, I mean, there are
number of loss situations which we are observing closely, starting with the opioid crisis,
but also topics like concussion in amateur or professional sports, or the lifting of the time
bar on sexual molestation [ph] losses in the United States. Here we don't have a changed
situation in Q4. So what I said in Q3 is still the case. We are still comfortable with our
ultimate loss ratio picks, but nonetheless we have decided to book some extra reserves
over in the back of what the ceding companies are reporting to us on those loss
situations. But we did not have to significantly reassess our older casualty years due to
social inflation aspects.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

I'll take the question on the coronavirus, James. So generally, of course, it's early to say,
this is still an event which we're following very, very carefully. There are some pandemic
covers in force in the Asian region. We're not participating, or to a very limited extent in

Page 10 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

such covers. So we don't have any significant exposure from that point of view. Obviously,
the mortality business in case of an extreme scenario would be hit, but it would be really
at extreme events, which would go beyond what we experienced with SARS27 years ago.
Stress testing is done systematically for pandemic. And this would in an extreme scenario
could lead to a net loss of up to EUR150 million based on risk management reporting, but
we are very far away from that. Maybe as a benchmark we had so far 361 cases of death
as of February 2, the last number I got. If you take the normal level of influenza season,
just in Germany, you have 20,000 people who die every year. So just to put things in
comparison. So there is some business which could be affected. I think the Chinese
business, when it comes to business interruption, particularly, infectious diseases are
excluded from the covers. So this would not lead to significant exposure. The exception
would be if some of the plants, which stopped production and will restart, if there would
be any property damage, then there would be some exposure. So it's very early to say.
Medical reimbursement business, we heard that the Chinese government said they would
take over the cost of treatment for people. So we would not expect a significant impact.
Critical illness, very small exposure for us. Personal accident covers, generally, have
exclusion clauses for infection diseases. So again a bit early to say -- to make a real
substantial statement, but at this stage we would feel that the coronavirus would not lead
to very significant losses, but of course we follow progress and hope this will be mitigated
in the coming weeks. On the SCR, I cannot give you the exact figure in terms of including
the growth for 2020, but the latest status I have for the SCR is 238%. That would be
where we stand today. If you need a bit more, we might need to talk offline or might
come back to it when we meet next.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

I guess if the renewals were up EUR800 million or so in absolute terms, is a good rule of
thumb about 100% of underwriting risk to back that if I'm to try and forecast the increase
in the SCR through the year?

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Difficult to say. We might need to come back to you offline on this.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay, all right, thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Andrew Ritchie of Autonomous. Your line is now open.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi there. Just a couple of clarifications. Could you just confirm that when you talk about
proportional price changes that is allowing for any lowering of ceding commission is
included in there, I shouldn't think about the lower ceding commission on top. I'm
guessing where you saw most of the reduction in ceding commissions was US casualty
exposures. A second question in relation to that your US casualty book you've always
talked about as being mostly regional, small ticket, regional carriers, smaller ticket type
Page 11 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

exposures. You grew the book, you indicated at 1/1. Are you happy to go up the sort of
scale curve, are you seeing attractive pricing even allowing for the loss cost uncertainty in
higher, larger value casualty books now? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Well, we have not gone up the scale, Andrew. We have written a very similar exposure
profile. If you want to pick one casualty class where we have grown the most significant, it
would be medical malpractice, which was always a strong component of our US casualty
portfolio. So this grew from roughly 115% to 140% -- million [ph] this year. So it's a little
more than 20%. But other than that the profile of our US casualty portfolio has not
changed in any meaningful way due to the improved terms and conditions on the
renewals.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

And on the ceding commission?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the ceding commission, what you are seeing in our reporting, those movements are
mostly movements in ceding commissions. So what we are not really doing, at least it's
very significantly diluted is translating the movements in the direct insurance pricing into a
technical risk-adjusted reinsurance pricing. So we are not trying to do that and therefore
the improved pricing which we are reporting this year on the proportional of business is
more or less exclusively the lower ceding commissions we are paying.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

That's why we are understating the real improvement in profitability then?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

You could say so. But normally you only have increases in insurance pricing, because of
good reasons. So in relative terms that's why we hesitate to do that translation. If you get
10% rates more, then most likely not all the 10% will directly contribute to bottom line, but
are unnecessarily -- necessary to the -- because of a technical reassessment of
profitability on the insurance side, and as we are one step too far removed from those
calculations, we are concentrating and measuring the ups and downs of commission level.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

And just to go back on to the -- where you are happy to grow, I mean med mal is an
example where there does seem to be a very heightened level of discussion even
amongst the smaller carriers about loss cost trends and the outlook. Do you feel the
pricing is sufficiently compensating for those loss cost trends?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes, we do, and I mean we have always written a selected profile of med mal business.
We are not supporting the big hospitals in a meaningful way. We are going more for the
Page 12 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

smaller practices and we are avoiding certain professions within the medical space, which
is giving the highest exposure to the topics you were just mentioning. So we are still
comfortable with our medical malpractice business mix, or indeed comfortable enough to
even grow that portfolio again by 20%.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thanks very much.

Operator
The next question is from Sami Taipalus of Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Yeah, morning everyone and thanks for taking my question. First one just staying on the
US casualty topic, I think your book traditionally has been quite focused on nonproportional business in US casualty. Is the pricing environment, or what you're seeing in
terms of changes in the pricing environment, I guess claims dynamics as well, is it
tempting you at all to change that more into a proportional book or is this more a, I guess,
fundamental positioning that you wish to keep? So that's number one. Number two on the
results, more broadly, it looks like you've got roughly to your guidance. P&C was pretty
much in line with guidance. Investment income was a bit stronger. So I guess it suggests
that the life reinsurance technical result might have been a bit weaker in Q4 on a
standalone basis. Is there anything to flag there that we should think about? And then
finally just on your specialty business, you talked already a little bit about Argenta and
increasing capacity there. Are you seeing opportunities to grow the JV you have with
Talanx a little bit more quickly now given the improving environment in specialty pricing?
Thank you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yeah, I am happy to take the US casualty and the HDI global specialty part. Our profile of
US casualty business as you rightly said is more heavily geared on the non-proportional
business, but to clarify we have always also written a proportional portfolio on the
business, which on an original basis is written on an excess basis. But we have historically
de-emphasized its quota share on ground-up casualty business in the United States. Our
risk appetite has not changed, at this year's renewal, I mean in order to have a more
substantial risk appetite on the pro rata basis, we would see -- need to see more
development in pricing, in terms and conditions on the insurance side. There is positive
momentum, but in our judgment it would be too early to change our overall US casualty
strategy yet. But as you can imagine, this of course is under review, but I have no
indication that we will change our mind any time soon as we would need to see more
substantial rate increases there.
On the specialty business, the joint venture with HDI, that company can report more
significant growth in 2019. And therefore they will also be able to grow a little more in
2020 if compared with original expectations. They have been able, particularly in the loan
market, to take advantage of some players closing down or closing portfolios down. So
we were able to hire teams on that side. A little earlier than we originally expected on
Page 13 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

good opportunities. So from that perspective, the most meaningful increase on the
specialty insurance side is definitely coming from Argenta, but also the HDI global
specialty side is performing slightly ahead of plan.

FINAL

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

And on your question on guidance, Indeed, the main driver for Q4 has been a very
satisfactory investment performance. The P&C results were affected. As we discussed,
given the overall picture, we felt that that was the level which was in line with the reality of
the portfolio. The life business is fully on track and in line with expectations. So, no new
development. The mortality trends are in line with our expectations. The US book in force
is being managed very diligently. So we're quite optimistic that we will continue to see
profitability emerge and the in-force book on track so far. So, no significant development.
Life business should meet our guidance.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Great, thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Michael Haid of Commerzbank. Your line is now open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for my questions. Two of them. I'm
interested in the dynamics of your canceled and the newly written business. So the
EUR744 million which are canceled and EUR810 million newly written, are there any special
developments or concentrations by regions or type of business in these two items? I think
you mentioned already kind of expansion in Canadian motor or I think also credit
insurance, but anything special here? The motivations why some businesses were
canceled, is it only price?
Then the second question is on volume, the EUR22.6 billion gross premiums written in
2019, that is a little bit higher than what I had expected. When I look into the fourth quarter
then the gross premiums IFRS grew by almost 25%. Anything special there or is there an
explanation why this growth, especially in the fourth quarter was so strong, also when I
compare it to the previous quarters?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

So let me take the first question, the -- outside of what I had already mentioned on
Canadian motor business, for example, or the credit and surety. There was no particular
trend when it comes to the canceled and restructured or the newly written business.
Quite a bit of the churn between the two categories is actually coming from restructuring,
sometimes clients restructuring their sessions so significantly in structure that we are
rather canceling the old contracts in our systems and establish a new treaty. So we saw
that happening this year again. I mentioned the agricultural business in China where we
have written higher shares, but also some new shares, but at the same time we have also
reduced shares on the agricultural business in other parts of the world. So no,
Page 14 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

unfortunately, no particular trend I can report, it is just the usual churn and restructuring we
would expect in any renewal On the second question, could you please repeat the
question, I don't think I fully did get what you asked?

FINAL

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Hannover Re, in the full year 2019 achieved gross premiums written, if I read correctly, of
EUR22.6 billion, and that was a little bit higher than what I had expected. And when I look
at the fourth quarter, the gross premiums written were EUR5.2 billion if I calculated
correctly and that implies 25% increase versus the fourth quarter 2018. Normally, I don't
looked at much at growth of IFRS premiums because it's volatile anyway, but at this time,
it's struck me a little bit that this growth in the fourth quarter was so high. Maybe it comes
from life and health, or it could come from --

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

I don't have the exact figures in front of me, but my assessment would be that part of the
answer is that the life and health business experienced strong growth in the last quarter
of the year and there might be foreign exchange translation in the mix which might
change the number, but I don't see anything on the P&C side, which would be outside of
the (Multiple Speakers). But I think life and health and ForEx might be two big drivers for
this movement. I hope it helps.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Perfect. Thanks so much.

Operator
The next question is from Vikram Gandhi of Societe Generale. Your line is now open.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hi, thank you for the opportunity. Just one question from my side. I heard your comment
around the complication around pricing change versus expected loss change on the
proportional business. But overall, looking at the 2.3% figure, how should we think about
the net effect, i.e., should we think about it as a risk adjusted pricing or just a nominal
pricing change figure? Thank you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Well, it's definitely a fully risk adjusted figure for the non-proportional business and on the
proportional side it comes with the limitations I have already described. It is just risk
adjusted from a pure reinsurance point of view with outgoing -- the extra step to ask
ourselves, how much of the original insurance rate increases we are seeing is technically
required, how much is bottom line accretive. This we would not be able to do across our
entire portfolio. So it's risk adjusted from just a reinsurance pricing point of view, mainly
concentrating on the movement of the ceding commission.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}
Page 15 of 16



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-05

Okay, that's very helpful. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

(Operator Instructions) As there are no further questions, I hand back to the speakers for
the closing remarks.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Well, thank you very much again for participating and for the active discussion. Hope this
provided you with a good overview on our P&C renewal season at 1/1. And as mentioned,
we will be able to give you a bit more detail and granularity on our 2019 figures next time
we are on the phone together on March 11. Thank you very much and have a good day.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This call has been concluded. You
may disconnect now.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 16 of 16

