Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Croft, Chief Executive Officer
Craig Gentle , Chief Financial Officer
Ian Gascoigne , Managing Director
Peter Edwards , Director Establishment
Robert Gardner, Director, Investment Management

Other Participants
Analyst
Andrew Baker
Andrew Crean
Andrew Sinclair
Ashik Musaddi
Colm Kelly
David McCann
Gregory Simpson

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon Hocking
Steven Haywood

Presentation
Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Good morning. I hope you're keeping safe and well. Given the ongoing pandemic, today's
presentation has been pre-recorded, and we'll be hosting a live Q&A at 9:20 a.m. This
morning's meeting will be in three sections. Firstly, a review of 2020, then a focus on the
future before I provide a brief summary. It goes without saying that 2020 was an
extraordinary year for individuals, businesses and society. Our lives have been disrupted
and we've all needed to adapt, come to terms with social distancing and had to embrace
technology. Our people together the Board of St. James's Place Community have worked
commendably, in the most trying of circumstances. They have demonstrated once again
the core values and behaviors that we hold there. So I'd like to start by thanking them all
for their hard work, dedication and commitment.
Operationally, the performance of the business during 2020 was inevitably disrupted.
However, St. James's Place demonstrated real resilience, supported by our recent major
investment in technology, together with the agility of our advisors and employees. And
let's just reflect on that operational performance for a moment. Gross inflows of GBP14.3
billion, net inflows of GBP8.2 billion, equivalent to 7% of opening funds under
Page 1 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

management, which ended the year up 11% at a record GBP129.3 billion. The business
continued to grow during a period of social distancing and lockdown. And given these
unprecedented challenging conditions throughout the year, we are naturally very pleased
with the results announced this morning. And Craig will cover these results in a moment.
But before I hand over to him, some comments on other 2020 developments.
Firstly, I welcome Paul Manduca to the Board, as a Chair designate. Paul brings a wealth of
experience and expertise to the Board, and I look forward to working with him in the years
ahead. Paul is replacing Iain Cornish, who steps down at the AGM after nearly 10 years on
the Board and the last 2.5 years as Chair. On behalf of the shareholders and the SJP
community a big thank you to Iain for his vibes and valuable counsel during his time on the
Board and as Chair. And on a personal note, I'd like to add my gratitude for the support
Iain provided to me as I took on the role as CEO. In addition, I thank Patience Wheatcroft
who after nine years on the Board is also stepping down at the AGM. Patience has made a
huge contribution to the Board over those years.
Secondly, the Partnership. At the start of the pandemic, we were sensitive to the fact that
in the face of a challenging external environment financial advisors across the UK will have
quite rightly being focused on supporting their existing clients and keeping their
businesses secure. We therefore chose to slow the rate of experienced recruitment
activity. We also made changes to our Academy programs, pausing new intakes during
the early period of the pandemic and we moved all existing cohorts of students to virtual
learning environments. Despite these changes, the Partnership grew by 1.6% during the
year to 4,338 advisors. I'm pleased to report that both the recruitment of experienced
advisors and new Academy intakes have now restarted as we get back to building the
Partnership.
Our partners reacted with remarkable agility to ensure that they have been able to
engage with clients despite the challenges presented by social distancing. Whilst physical
face-to-face meetings were restricted, partners and clients embraced technology by
making greater use of digital channels including webinars, videos conferencing and social
media. Partners are not only able to provide relevant and valuable information at a difficult
and uncertain time but also maintain the personal touch and provide emotional support.
Face-to-face advice embracing modern technology, a feature that work for both clients
and partners alike. And whilst the Zoom will never fully replace physical meetings, video
meetings are a feature that has been welcomed by clients and are here to stay.
Given the continued first-rate financial and non-financial support provided by the
partnership throughout the pandemic, it is therefore no wonder that they and St. James's
Place continue to win a host of awards. The highlight was once again being voted by
clients as Wealth Manager of the Year in the city of London awards for the sixth successive
year. Proving our clients value the advice, and service they receive.
Turning now to our investment proposition. 2020 was an extraordinary period for
investment markets with the first half of the year in particular characterized by extreme
volatility as markets reacted to the escalating global COVID-19 pandemic. Against this
backdrop, the return of our portfolios proved resilient helping to keep our clients on track
towards their long-term financial goals.
Page 2 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

We continue to evolve our investment proposition with a number of changes to our fund
range and investment managers. During the year, we strengthened our global equity
offering through the redesign of our global quality fund and evolved our fixed income
range to provide greater diversification through increased exposure to emerging market
credit. 2020 also saw the appointment of some new managers with Somerset Capital
Management, Pzena Investment Management, Sanders Capital, Artisan Partners and
BlueBay Asset Management, all appointed to manage specific investment strategies.
These developments will help to future-proof our investment proposition and ensure we
continue to offer compelling investment strategies to our clients.
It is also important that we continue to meet changing client needs. And in the recognition
of the growing number of clients in retirement, we have recently launched an initiative of
range of funds designed to provide investment solutions around the challenge of the
accumulation. Our three in retirement funds are market-leading offerings that allow clients
with the guidance of their advisor to map out their objectives and find a suitable
investment solution that is able to support a specific withdrawal profile according to their
specific needs.
Moving on to technology. Having completed the smooth migration of all of our core UK
business to the new Bluedoor administration platform in 2019, during 2020, we safely
decommissioned the legacy systems and completed the significant task of implementing
salesforce across the Partnership. Salesforce together with Bluedoor provides a modern
technology ecosystem. And during 2021, we will be focusing on maximizing the use of the
features available. The investment in technology that we have made over the years has
already served the business well, providing us with a much greater degree of operational
resilience through the pandemic. It has been key to enabling the rapid deployment of
complimentary functionality to better service the partnership and clients during lockdown.
We aspire to be a leading responsible business, one that demonstrates positive social
impact from our core business activities. It was therefore a really proud moment when SJP
achieved the Business In The Community - Community Mark, one of only 37 companies
worldwide who currently enjoy this status. One of our key values is to give back to those
who are less fortunate to the work of the St. James's Place Charitable Foundation.
The pandemic had a significant impact on the charity sector, with many fundraising events
cancelled. This made it a tough year for the Foundation, but I'm delighted that our
community still raised a fantastic GBP9 million which enabled the foundation to provide
more than GBP10.5 million of grants to support many great causes through a difficult year.
We were also able to advance future commitments and allow restricted funds to be used
for unrestricted purposes. We also recognized our responsibility as a steward of some
130 billion to have the positive impacts on the world around us. So, I'm pleased to report
that all 39 of our external fund management houses are now signatories to the United
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
We've also progressed our client disclosures around responsible investing with the launch
of our quarterly Portfolio Carbon Emissions Reports. This level of transparency helps us,
advisers and clients consider how the carbon footprint of our portfolio compares to
equivalent benchmarks. In 2020, we also joined the Net Zero Asset Owners Alliance,
Page 3 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

making public our commitment that all our investment portfolios will be carbon neutral by
2050, excellent progress. Despite the disruption and distraction of COVID-19, we
continued with our five-year business planning cycle and we're able to factor in the
lessons we have learned from navigating the pandemic.

FINAL

More about this later, but for now I hand you over to Craig to run through the robust
financial performance.

Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Andrew. And good morning, and welcome from me. I think like many, I've run out
of words to describe 2020. And so I won't dig deep for anymore. Instead, I'll go straight
into the results for the year. But as Andrews said I'll come back after he's explained our
2025 planning cycle and let you know what assumptions you should have in mind for your
models going forward. The order of my presentation will be a familiar one. Firstly, I'll give
a quick recap on flows, funds under management and the Partnership, then I'll run through
the cash results and the embedded value results. Following which I'll cover solvency and
the dividend announcements that we've made this morning.
Turning then to gross inflows, which for 2020 stood up GBP14.3 billion, which is equal to
12% of our opening funds under management. This is a very strong outcome, and the
Partnership responded magnificently to the challenges posed. It's critical though that we
don't just focused solely on new business, because retaining investment is absolutely key
to adding long-term value and again the Partnership put in an enormous effort to
successfully support clients throughout the year. This is reflected in net inflows of GBP8.2
billion which is 7% of opening funds under management.
I'll come onto the markets in a moment, but the fact that funds under management grew
by 11% is a clear indication of the strength of the business model and the momentum that
we consistently sustained overtime. The number of advisors in the partnership grew from
4,271 to 4,338. For obvious reasons growth plans were interrupted but it's worth stating
that we come out of the crisis with a bigger Partnership that we had at the onset, but it's
not all about scale. The experience of 2020 has made the Partnership even better
equipped to succeed and continue to deliver this momentum.
Turning now to the financial results. I'll start with some observations about the cash result
which in total grew 11% in 2020. Firstly, net income from funds under management
increased by 7% to GBP455.9 million in spite of the shape of the markets. The average
margin on mature funds behind this was approximately 63 burps, which is in line with the
guidance that we've given previously. As you know, growth in letting come from funds
under management comes from net new ICE revenues unit trust investments made
during the year but also the maturing of bonds and pension business from gestation. This
maturity for the year help to drive growth even though the market dip worked against
income.
Funds and gestation now amount to GBP43.4 billion which means that using market values
at the end of December by 2026 net income from funds will benefit from additional

Page 4 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

income of some GMP370 million. It's also worth noting that costs associated with
administering funds in gestation are already included in the margin and elsewhere within
our cost base. So, this additional income comes with no additional associated cost. It's this
consistent maturing of funds together with new business going into the hopper that will
deliver operating leverage in the future. The mountain arising on new business of
GBP116.8 million has been very consistent with the result that we saw in the first half and
includes the impact of some fixed cost gearing that emerges when volumes are lower
than in the prior year and vice versa.
Turning to expenses, establishment expenses were very much in line with the guidance I
gave last July. I'm going to come back after Andrew's next piece to explain how they will
evolve in the future, but it's worth reminding you that our cost base which is largely
people, property and technology-related has generally increased in line with the scale of
the business in the past. Scale is perhaps best seen in the context of the number of
advisers together with their professional support staff, but we must also remember the
need to navigate the additional complexity and cost involved in running a successful
advice business where we take the responsibility for advice and manufacturing risk as well
as wider regulatory compliance.
By making sure that we have an infrastructure designed and executed to protect all of
these areas, we are able to stand behind the advice guarantee that is so important to
clients, and keep clients, partners and shareholders safe. We've continued to invest
significantly in a range of well-known technology related programs ranging from sales
force, which is giving us a leading edge CRM system through to DocuSign, Qwil and
Capture, all of which have supported smooth operations and facilitated growth in the
most challenging lockdown conditions. We've also re-platformed over 2,500 partner
business websites to enable more dynamic content and optimization in search engine
rankings.
All of these costs are reflected in operational and strategic developments, and the total
costs for the year are in line with the July guidance. In order to simplify our cash result
presentation, we'll be combining these two lines into one strategic and operational
developments heading from the half year onwards. What area during the pandemic
where our learning has been significant is in the Academy, what was almost an exclusively
physical experience is now a blend of virtual and physical learning and development. And
we see this as a permanent and progressive change that will give us broader reach and
greater scalability in the future, which is an exciting development given the increasing
importance that the Academy will have in the future. Lower costs for the year reflect the
temporary pause in the period between the first lockdown and the reformatted kick start
during the summer.
I'd now like to turn to our investments in Asia and DFM both of which have of course
experience the same trading conditions as the Group as a whole. The overall picture for
both is one of income growth coupled with cost control. In Asia, we now have funds under
management of GBP1.2 billion and more than half of this has the same cash emergence
profile as the UK business and currently sits within gestation. It will of course therefore
contribute to the Asia results as it matures. Asia contributed at breakeven result to the

Page 5 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

embedded value in 2020 and will become cash positive by 2025. We remain excited
about this asset for the future.
In DFM, we now have over GBP2.9 billion of funds under management and that's 3% up
on last year. During 2020, we took the next step of aligning DFM and stock broking
services with the overall SJP investment management approach and we've made it easier
for partners to create the spoke investment outcomes for clients. It's this sort of
alignment that will drive DFM growth in the future and deliver on our plan for DFM net
investment to breakeven by 2024.
Taking all of this into account and of course other items including the FSCS Levy, our
underlying cash result was GBP264.7 million, which is 3% lower than for 2019, and a very
strong outcome given markets and operating conditions. Our total cash result is 11%
higher for 2020, GBP254.7 million, and this of course reflects a much lower back office
infrastructure charge, now that all of our UK products are on Bluedoor and that legacy
systems have been successfully decommissioned.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now turn briefly to EV, which continues to be a good measure as to how the overall
economic value of the business has grown over the year. The resilience of the business in
challenging circumstances reflected in the new business contribution being only 3% down
at GBP766 million compared to 2019. And at the end of the year, the EV net asset value
per share stood at GBP14.49 compared to a share price of around GBP12.30.
I've little to update you on regarding capital as our approach in the UK life company
remains the same at 110% of the standard formula which given the simplicity of the
business and the resiliency in risk profile remains prudent. That leads to a combined life
company's solvency ratio of 112% at the year-end.
Finally on dividends, we've made a number of announcements regarding dividends this
morning, and I'll deal with two matters now and the forward-looking guidance a little later.
Firstly, we announced the decision to pay the 11.22 pence per share that we retained from
2019 dividend. As we said at the time the decision to retain this amount was a prudent
response to a number of very challenging potential scenarios that could have
materialized. These scenarios which were considered at the point of greatest uncertainty
have not played out and the business has shown resilience throughout. The Board that for
-- no longer sees the need to continue with this retention and the amount will be paid as
an interim dividend on the 31st of March. Having not paid an interim at the half year, we
also announced today a proposed final dividend in respect of 2020 of 38.49 pence per
share. This is clearly lower than the total amount payable in respect of 2019, but it reflects
a lower underlying cash results and it's 78% payout ratio, which is broadly in line with past
guidance.
So that's about it on the 2020 outcome, but as I said at the outset, I'll be back shortly to
talk about the future. And so I'll now hand back to Andrew.

Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Page 6 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Thank you, Craig. As I said earlier, given the unprecedented external environment, a very
resilient and robust set of results, which we are naturally pleased with. I mentioned in my
opening remarks, we continued with our five-year business planning cycle. I'm now going
to spend some time on this topic. And let me start with a couple of really important
business model confirmations. St. James's Place is an organic growth business and this will
remain the case. We do not see value to material M&A activity and we'll forever be
conscious of indigestion by trying to do too much too quickly. And secondly, we are a
people business with strong bonds throughout our community. And change where it may
be required is best achieved through evolution and not revolution.
Now let's reflect on the market in which we operate and you would have heard us talk
many times over the years about the supply and demand dynamics of the financial advice
market. We remain convinced that the demand for trusted advice is as strong as ever and
we are excited about the growth prospects ahead of us. Total UK retail wealth remains
large and growing. We know people are living longer which together with the demise of
defined benefit pension schemes we requires individuals to take responsibility for their
own retirement income and long-term care or find a trusted advisor to help them.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also know that 87% of total UK personal wealth is concentrated in the hands of those
over the age of 45, very much our target market. This highlights the extent of future asset
accumulation and the size of opportunity that intergenerational wealth transfer presents.
And let's not forget, we live in an interconnected world with complex tax regulations and
an increasing tax burden. Individuals must navigate these challenges to protect and build
their savings over the long-term either alone or as I said earlier with a trusted advisor to
help them.
All these factors may planning for one's financial future difficult enough already, but
adding to that, we have been and remain in an era of essentially non-existent return on
cash savings. Interest rates are unlikely to increase anytime soon. Some argue that there
is the prospect of negative interest rates. Yet savers still need to protect their nest eggs
for the future. And as an aside, it's not just financial benefits that advice provides for
clients, but there are also significant none-financial benefits too. And we were delighted
to have recently worked with the International Longevity Center in preparing their 2020
report that explored the none-financial benefits of financial advice. Their work found that
people who take advice are more confident about their financial future and better
prepared for retirement and that advice improves financial literacy, confidence and
delivers greater control, reassurance and peace of mind. All these factors support our
view that the demand for trusted face-to-face advice is as strong as ever.
Financial advice has an important part to play in helping to close the UK savings gap,
estimated be more than GBP300 billion today and projected to grow to GBP350 billion
by 2050. As the clear market leader in financial advice, we are well placed. What's
financial advice has an important part to play in helping to build the UK savings gap? There
was also a recognized advice gap. We've just some 33,000 qualified advisers in the UK.
This is half the number of advisers per capita than in both the US and Australia. Quite
simply there is an insufficient supply of qualified financial advisors in the UK.

Page 7 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

This is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, it dampens competition in the financial
advice market, but on the other hand it limits the pool of recruiting experienced advisors
to the Partnership. However, we believe our proposition for advisors and clients is
stronger than ever. So we remain confident in our ability to attract advisers of the highest
caliber to our community. And with both the recruitment of experienced advisors and new
Academy intakes having now restarted, we will be getting back to building the Partnership
in 2021, and expect a recovery in growth in adviser numbers by around 3% to 5% for the
year.
Looking further ahead, the external market of experienced advisors has not been growing
materially. And taking account of the average age of these advisors, we expect overall
numbers to reduce in coming years. Consequently, the importance of the Academy will
continue to increase. And it's therefore pleasing that we started the year with 244
students in our Academy and we expect to see a further 350 new entrants to financial
advice join the academy this year in one form or another.
Supporting and developing the Partnership will continue to be critical to our success over
time and we're pleased to have made further progress in 2020. In addition to adapting
our professional development programs to accommodate virtual engagement, we
invested in technology and process improvements to make it easier for our advisors to
engage with clients and manage their own businesses. As I said earlier our collaboration
with salesforce gathered pace throughout the year, and we now have a leading scalable
technology infrastructure that will further benefit all stakeholders in the years ahead. We
believe there is considerable potential for further growth in partner productivity in the
coming years by both making us easier to do business with and by supporting our
partners to help them further grow their businesses. So a growing need for financial
advice, whilst at the same time the country faces an advice gap. This means we are
excited about our future growth prospects.
When considering the sheer scale of our flows today and looking forward over five years,
we think now is the time to recalibrate our growth ambitions. And we believe, we can
achieve growth in new business of around 10% per annum going forward. Although there
will of course be years when it is better or perhaps behind this medium-term target.
Achieving this growth ambition whilst maintaining our very strong retention rates together
with modest growth in the investment markets, will see funds under management in
excess of GBP200 billion by the end of 2025. And as a stretch ambition, you may have
seen that at our recent annual company meeting I threw down the (inaudible) to St.
James's Place to actually double funds under management over the next five years to
more than GBP250 billion.
While we will continue to invest in the business to support our continued growth and
maintain our market leading position, the technological foundations that we have put in
place over the last few years provide us with greater operating flexibility and efficiency,
such that our expense growth going forward will be around 5% per annum. The
combination of these planning assumptions together with the continuing increase in the
cash emergence from those funds in gestation will provide for strong growth in the
underlying cash result over the coming years.

Page 8 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

And from 2021, the dividend payout ratio will be set at 70% of this underlying cash result.
This takes account to three factors: an increasing capital requirement with the growth in
funds under management, other business investment needs, and the influence of growth
together with the changing business mix. As you will hear from Craig in a moment this last
point has an impact on the timing of when distributable profits emerge in the life
company. So, strong future growth in the underlying cash result, which will translate into
strong future shareholder return.
I'm now going to hand you back to Craig.

Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Andrew. So, let me pick up on a number of points following on from what you've
just heard. And let's start with growth. As Andrew explained, he set the goal of exceeding
GBP200 billion of funds under management over the next five years. Clearly the markets
need to play an important part in achieving this, but there are a number of things that we
can control to achieve this objective. These include continued future growth in the
partnership and investments in technology and processes that will make it easier to do
business and increase productivity. Both will help us achieve the aim of growing gross
flows at the rate of 10% a year over our planning period. This rate of growth is broadly
consistent with the numbers that many of you are currently using in your models.
As part of our planning process, we've also reassessed the way in which we'll use our
resources in the future. In the past, we've had a headcounts intensive approach to
growing operational capacity. This has supported exceptional consistent and safe growth
over the years, but our investment in core systems and technology means that our future
use of resources will involve much lower growth in people related costs and much more
focused on technology and smarter processes. And all of this to support our face-to-face
advice model.
The journey we've planned for the next five years is defined within a very clear financial
envelope. The net result is that we will be able to contain our overall cost increase in the
controllable operating cost base to no more than 5%. And we're defining this as all costs
within our cash results other than FSCS and regulatory fees and the back-office
infrastructure costs that have now ceased. Behind the headline 5% figure, the makeup will
be far more technology driven and this change in approach will become more
pronounced over time. We set out the impact on this slide.
In 2021, you should assume that establishment expenses will be held flat. We've already
taken steps towards our plans to achieve this including a restructuring exercise the cost of
which will be approximately GBP9 million in our cash results, and this will be separately
disclosed as a one-off non-recurring charge in 2021. Operational and strategic
development costs in 2021 will grow by around 25% which will reflect a re-purposing of
resources away from establishment expenses towards technology and process
investment. Academy costs will increase by 15% and technology will enable us to achieve
greater reach and intensity.

Page 9 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

So, to recap taking all of this into account for 2021, we're planning on an increase of
around 5% in our total controllable cost base together with a separate one off below the
line charge of GBP9 million. For 2022 and beyond you should also assume a 5% increase
rather than the 10% that features in many of your models. A sizable portion of our
operating cost base will continue to be in support of future growth and over the coming
months we will provide more granularity and share with you the nature of our cost base.
There is in the back of the slide deck a guidance summary which sets out this 2021
guidance on costs and other relevant information for you to consider in your models.
I'll turn now to dividends. Andrew has already commented on the changing business mix
with pensions and investment bonds now representing over 70% of our total new
business flows. We consider this to be a structural shift for the purposes of our planning
time frame. You might recall that the DAC and DIR adjustments within the IFRS rules
requires part of the margin arising on new business for investment bonds and pensions to
be deferred and recognized over the first six years, even though the cash has been
received, this isn't new. But in the short to medium term as we continue to grow our gross
inflows the accumulated effect of this mismatch in our planning horizon will result in
emerging cash exceeding the available IFRS distributable profits.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is of course only a temporary timing difference, but given the dynamic of cash
earnings, emerging faster than distributable profit, we will be moving to a payout ratio of
around 70% of the underlying cash results starting in 2021 in order to accommodate the
mismatch. This will provide a certain and sustainable payout ratio throughout and beyond
our planning horizon as well as catering for the longer-term timing effect to IFRS it will of
course enable us to continue investing in the business to support future growth.
Finally, you'll have also seen that we're simplifying our approach to interim dividends.
Whereby we'll take a purely formulaic approach to calculating the payments and these will
be set at an amount equal to 30% of the prior year total dividend. For 2021 however, you
need to remember to exclude the payments of the 2019, 11.22 pence per share from your
models.
Well, that's it and I'll now hand back to Andrew for his final comments.

Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Craig. So some final words from me. 2020 was a year like no other, and we
are now approaching the anniversary of the first lockdown. Whilst our operations and
performance during the year were inevitably disrupted in the most challenging of
conditions, our communities performed admirably to deliver another robust set of results.
A summary of which you can see on this slide. It was a tough year and had we been
offered this outcome at the start of the pandemic then we would have embraced it with
open arms. I am immensely proud of how the whole of the SJP community adapted to the
rapidly changing conditions. Supporting clients, one another and the wider society.
Now aside from navigating and managing through the pandemic, we also made progress
across many fronts and continue to consider our five-year planning cycle, the outputs we

Page 10 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

have shared with you today. Whilst there is nothing fundamentally changing with the
business strategy, you will note that we've included a Capital Markets Day within the 2021
investor calendar. We believe shareholders would value further insight into the
Partnership, the development of Asia in Rowan Dartington, the roadmap for our
technology investment, how we use our resources and business efficiency.
What will 2021 bring? While we're not yet operating in normal trading conditions and there
is a challenging external environment. However, we and the Partnership are in good shape
for whatever market conditions we face. In the near term whilst we're encouraged by the
moderate growth we have seen in the early weeks of 2021, the external environment
does remain challenging. There remain difficult months ahead but as COVID-19
restrictions ease, we are hopeful there will be an economic recovery and we will see a
return to more normal growth in client investments.
Beyond the pandemic, we remain very excited about our growth prospects, achievement
of our planning assumptions would see St. James's Place continue to deliver attractive
growth and boosted by the release of cash from funds in gestation, significant growth in
the dividend.
Thank you for watching. And as a reminder, we will be hosting a live Q&A at 9:20 a.m.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
(Question And Answer)

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining today's Q&A. Look, it's a shame, we
can't get together, but hopefully we'll be able to do so at the next set of results. I'm also
conscious, a reasonably large number of you will need to join the AXA call at 10:00 a.m.
So we will sort of call an end to the Q&A. Then clearly, you know where we are, if you have
any other questions.
Now one advantage of doing a virtual Q&A is that we have the whole of the executive
team on the call, which provides me with some great optionality for all those difficult
questions. So let's go right now to the first question, please Ruby.

Operator
Absolutely. Our first question is from David McCann of Numis. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.

Q - David McCann

{BIO 15885639 <GO>}

Page 11 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

Good morning, everyone. Thanks guys for taking my question. And yeah sure. I'll have the
usual analyst free, if that's okay. Just to kick off firstly in terms of the new guidance around
the cost growth. I mean, can you give us some specific -- articulate some specific actions
that are actually taken to reduce the cost base, the cost growth to that new lower level.
Just I guess to -- if you get some composite material change from the client? And that's
question one.
Question two relates to what confidence do you have? This isn't going to negatively
impact in some way on rent, and partner, servicing? Obviously, you're not growing cost as
much? And then finally, the third question on new target, you got to collect (inaudible) in
Asia.
I mean, can you say kind of what some of the management growth you require to get to
those kind of breakeven targets. Those are how much is predicated on continuing to
develop business is quite strongly and how much factors? And also do I guess a follow-up
part of that, this is might be fourth questions really to get to those breakeven, you're
talking about 2024, 2025, is that kind of -- should we assume that's going to linear
through the life from where we are now or it's backend loaded to get to that breakeven
one? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. I'll take our Asia question in a moment, but perhaps hand over to Craig to talk about
the costs and how are we going to achieve the 5%?

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Yes. I said David, what you're describing is what we're calling the financial envelope that
we're going to be working within over the next five years as we pursue that plan. As with
all the plans, there is a need for a kick start and the kick start is happening in the form of a
review that we're in the process of doing and completing at the moment and you'll have
seen that there are a number of roles that we've put at risk. (Technical Difficulty)
If the establishments expenses that you're familiar with flat and then the amount that we
would typically grow establishment expenses by will be redeployed into other areas of
growth and that's principally investment in technology and smarter processes. The
question of how we will go about doing it. I think we've got a reasonable track record of
staying what we're going to do and then doing it. I think my answer is that over the next
five years, the Executive Board as a whole has set itself this financial envelope to work
with them and therefore, that's what we will do. I know there's a follow-up to this
question. Andrew, I don't know, who you wanted to do cover?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yes. So this is the confidence that we runt impact partners and that's a very good
question David and absolutely key that we have to continue with servicing. If that's the
right word partners and clients and we're very confident that we can do that within the
financial envelope.

Page 12 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

To answer your RD and Asia question, and there's a couple of bits in there. So firstly for
your modeling, I would just do linear. The numbers, we'll put the end up being slightly
different than that, but I think linear will be fine for your model. I also said in my
presentation, which I'm sure you watched this morning that we will do a Capital Markets
Day later in May and that we do recover our RD and Asia in a bit more detail. There's
clearly two levers to that improving result, one is the income and the other is expenses
and we would expect the income to grow faster than the group 10% but we're not
factoring in any way massively heroic assumptions there and I think the other important
point on Asia in particular David, is that about half of the funds under management are in
the six-year gestation period. So though will naturally we start generating income in future
years, and that's why we couldn't see the trajectory to sort of cash profit 2025. So I think
Ruby, we go to the next question, please.

Operator
Absolutely. Our next question is from Jon Hocking of Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
open. Please go ahead.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good morning, everybody. Three questions please. Firstly, can you comment about
what your assumptions are in terms of advisory growth going forward? Historically, we've
had the some stuff to 8% trajectory, I think COVID has interrupted that somewhat. So
what are you receiving out to 2025 in terms of the growth and advisors?
Then secondly, just in terms of the admin cost burden. In the scope of these plans, are
you planning on pushing back any of the admin burden to the partners? Is there
something specific transfer, giving Bluedoor's efficiencies and on that front particularly?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

I might take the second question first. I think you're saying are we passing some admin
costs to the partner and I think partners? And the answer there is quite simply is no. That
model is not changing and in terms on the assumptions around advisor group. I want to
just come back to this is what we're trying to do is grow the business by 10% per annum
and there's a whole host of believers. We can operate within their -- there's experienced
recruitment, which was on hold last year and we've now restarted as a graduations from
the academy, they're supporting our partners to grow their business as making it easier to
do business with. So I don't want to give a specific breakdown of the 10% but it will be
using each of those levers and then we're very confident that we can do that. Ian, I don't
know whether you want to add anything?

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

No, I think you're right there these the range of leavers and strategies we have within the
group means that we were confident of the 10% and that ranges from recruiting
experienced advisors. As Andy says, developing our own academy, increasing the
efficiency and productivity of our existing advisors and we've taken -- we're increasing our
spend on learning and development and the impact there particularly on partners in their
first five years. So it's a range of strategies and we're confident of achieving the same.
Page 13 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Any particular change from the past?

FINAL

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

No, we will continue to do exactly what we've done in the past, and there's some years
that we might have a higher advisor growth than other years, but it is a whole host of
pulling different levers. And I'm not sure whether we've totally answered your admin
question or not. So I might just see, if Craig wants to?

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Yes, it's more whether there's -- whether you're transferring any responsibilities to the
advisors, given that they can do small things through self-service or encourage their
clients do things for yourself service rather than actually recharging the overhead?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think Jon, the way -- it's Craig here, by the way, so I think the way to think about this is
that if we can have better systems and smarter processes, it benefits everyone. So what
the 2025 plan involves is finding different and better ways of doing things. Now, you
mentioned Bluedoor and over the next planning periods, we see Bluedoor as quite a
significant enabler because it enables us to build those smarter processes and IT
supported systems around it.
So it's certainly not the case of transferring activity back and forth but it's changing the
way in which that activity is carried out and if that can benefit SJP as a business and it
benefits the partner business, that that's a win-win situation and that's really what we're
pitching for over the next period of time.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Jon. Can we have next question please, Ruby?

Operator
Absolutely, that is from Andrew Sinclair of Bank of America. Your line is now open. Please
go ahead.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 3232978 <GO>}

Excellent, and good morning, everyone. Three from me if that's okay. Firstly, just on -- you
talked about the gross inflows, but St. James is no much more mature business coming
up for 30 years old. How do you think about retention rates over your planned period as
its customers age, take retirement and how do you think of changes and retention rates
in your GBP200 billion, GBP250 billion AUM target?
Page 14 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

Secondly is that you talked about moderate growth over the early weeks of Q1. Just
wondered if you could give us a bit more color about how we should think about that? Is
that actual growth in gross flows year-on-year? I guess that's a pretty tough Q1 comp last
year or is that just leading indicators?
And thirdly, was I realized just perhaps looking a long time out. But as you look beyond
2025, if the business mix stays as it is and as business matures, thinking about the IFRS
profit element as well and retained earnings. Do you think you still stay at 70%, you think
that can increase again or how should we think about beyond 2020?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, thank you. Thank you, Andrew. I'll let Craig answer the questions through in a
moment and are perhaps trying to deal with the first two. So what moderate growth?
Well, I think firstly it's important to remember that the comparative is a pre-pandemic
comparator. So, we're comparing pre-pandemic with still being in lockdown and
moderate, it's obviously greater than zero and I would probably say, less than 10 and
perhaps back to something in the middle there, something along those lines, but that
that's what I would do in your models at this particular point in time.
In terms of retention, we're not expecting any -- will change in those retention statistics
when we look across the entire population of our clients. What we are seeing and have
been for a while is just people actually reducing their regular income withdrawals some of
that would be because of lockdown and there's a lot more planning around
intergenerational planning as well. So some of the some of the Pension funds with us for
instance will probably pass through people's estates and stay with us for another 50
years. So, we're not expecting to see any change in the retention rates.
And then I'll hand over to Craig on the IFRS point.

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Yeah, I don't see any change as we are at the moment when we last put together five
year plan, you gave back to 2015, this was something that didn't need to be featured in
the plans that we made because of the way in which the balances were made up because
of stocks of profits and in different places. It's come onto the scene for the next five
years. And what we're doing here is rather than do an emergency stop anywhere. We're
sort of anticipating how this is likely to evolve in the future and it's really important to have
in mind that the core assumption here is growth and its growth that drives that behavior
within a deferred income balance because you're constantly moving more into the future
than you're gathering up from the past.
So it is just a timing difference but the 70% sees us very, very safely through the planning
horizon that we have at the moment and at this stage, anticipate anything that would
significantly change that once we get to the end of that planning horizon, but it is all
dependent on the scale of growth. And again, just to emphasize it's one of those odd
balances that grows where growth is sharper, but certainly what we're putting forward
now is a five-year at least sustainable approach to group distributions.

Page 15 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yes, sustainable and certain. Could we have the --

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 3232978 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Next question, please. Ruby.

Operator
Absolutely. Our next question is from Ashik Musaddi of JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Thank you and good morning, Andy, Craig. Just a couple of questions. So first of all,
now you have a new growth outlook of 10% going forward. I mean what is giving you
enough confidence on this 10% growth outlook? Is it like a mix of partnership and
productivity or is it like any better outlook for macro? And would you say that, it could still
be 15% just because there is the visibility is low that's why you are -- you have gone to a
10% outlook rather than 15% to 20% that you had in the past? So that's the first one. Or
it's something structurally changed in the business to go to 10% versus 15% to 20%?
The second one would be around the payout ratio. Again, I mean you mentioned, I mean
clearly again going back to the previous question there is something to do with IFRS
deferral, et cetera, versus the cash profit. So that would still mean that you will be
accumulating cash over the next five years because you don't need more than that
because if there is no back office infrastructure cost, then there's not much of leakage
between underlying and net cash results.
So what do you plan to do with that extra cash, you might not be able to pay it out there
all you just want to preserve it because of IFRS mutable profits, but what are your other
plans for that remaining 30%?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. Thank you, Ashik. I'm probably going to go straight to Craig to answer the
second question because it sort of continues from Andrew's question just now. So Craig?

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

So I think you're absolutely right. But the impact of having these IFRS deferrals is that you
accumulate cash in an entity and the one thing you can't do with that cash is distribute it
because it has two to wait in the queue for distribution as it were. Now the fact is that this
is cash that's over time will accumulate in the life company. And therefore, you have to
think quite carefully about what you can and what you can't do with it. The way we use this
Page 16 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

-- the sort of data that we've used in our planning assumptions. We've taken a pretty
cautious approach.
So, we haven't made any bold assumptions about what we will or what we won't be able
to do with that cash. But the reality is over time as it becomes a more meaningful figure,
there probably will be things that we can do with that put it to good use within the group.
But what I would say is that if for whatever reason whatever reason, and I can't think of the
reason. But if for whatever reason, we couldn't put it to good use that would not in any
way affect the payout ratio that we've calculated. But it's one of those things that over
time we will be working on. And one of our priorities will be to as I say put it to good use.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Craig. And just coming back to your first question, Ashik. The 10% growth on
the size of the close-up that we're doing now is still really, really attractive growth. But
there is just a sheer scale point. We remain confident that we can do that for those levers
that we talked about just now, recruitment experienced advisors, academy graduations,
helping partners and supporting partners grow their businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

And underlying all of that, and as I said in the presentation this morning, is all those market
dynamics of a growing market, growing need for advice, intergenerational transfer of
wealth, low interest rates not going anywhere. So yeah, we're confident about the 10%
and it's not going to be 10% every year, some years it might be higher than that, other
years it might be lower than that. But over a five-year time horizon that feels definitely
achievable. Could we have the next question then please, Ruby?

Operator
Absolutely. Our next question is from Colm Kelly of UBS. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks very much for taking my questions. First on the expense growth of 5%, that's
very good guidance on that today. You indicate that there will be GBP9 million of
restructuring cost this year. As opposed as you looked forward and lower and the growth
in the operating expense base, is it likely that it's still going to take further restructuring
cost over a couple of years. As you say it, it's technology-driven and I know you continue
to invest in technology and automation side of the business in order to drive cost
efficiencies. So is it sensible to assume that will be maybe some more restructuring cost
there and beyond 2021 in relation to this?
And the second question is in relation to the timing mismatch between cash and the
distributable profit. So again, very sensible guidance here. I suppose even based on a
70% pay-out ratio on the dividend, there's likely to be some years where the dividend will
be higher than the IFRS process may require, dipping into the distributive of reserve.

Page 17 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

So I assume within your plan, you've allowed for that, you're happy to dip into the self of
the typical reserve, where needed to support our payout ratio. Or is there any ambition to
keep distributable reserves anyway stable?
And then just lastly related to that. Again related to a similar question earlier. I mean
based on your modeling, is there a timeframe at which the IFRS profit is expected to
catch up with the cash results? I appreciate it may not be in the next five year plan, but
based on your modeling, do you have a real timeframe from what you think this issue
goes away? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Colm. And I'm now going to pass both those questions over to Craig.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Okay. So on the expense growth, yeah, I've -- I mentioned this this morning a restructuring
charge that we'll see in the cash result. As I say, any business will always be contemplating
change in the way it delivers, what it delivers and the way it uses its resources. But am I at
this stage contemplating a further restructuring cost of this size that I think the answer is
no, but there will be a constant level of activity within the business as we always
reassessed what it is we need for the future and what we need to change from the past
but I think I use the expression in an earlier question kick start. I think what this
restructuring charge will represent is the kick start to a new plan going forward for the
next five years. So my anticipation of this stage at this stage will be that to the extent, we
have additional costs coming through on change that will just be absorbed into the
operational cost base.
On the payout ratio, it's always complicated Colm as you know. Because you're looking at
the distributable profits at a statutory entity level and there are one or two of those
statutory entities that are quite complicated because of the IFRS accounting rules. But the
modeling that we've done anticipates that this payout ratio will be sustainable through the
emergence of cash backed profits over the next five years.
So that's very much the basis on which it has been done. You talked about convergence.
You've probably already seen some convergence. Because one of the things that people
will pick up on is the fact that we tend to focus very heavily on underlying cash for all the
right reasons, but we have also had the Bluedoor costs going through below the line. And
of course, IFRS is agnostic as to whether it's below or above any line. It just goes through
as an IFRS cost. So, you will already see operating cost convergence as a result of the
completion of that program.
Other than that, it's actually quite difficult other than through complex reconciliation to see
the relationship between IFRS and the cash result because of so many other things that
represent accounting changes rather than changes you expect as a result of commercial
activity, but I have but I think you will probably see more congruence in the future than
you've seen in the past.

Page 18 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Craig.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

FINAL

Can we have next question please, Ruby?

Operator
Absolutely. Our next question is from Andrew Crean of Autonomous. Your line is now
open. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning, all.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Good morning, Andrew.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. Firstly, can you talk about the investment performance last year relative to
benchmark on a weighted basis? Secondly, suppose it's once ready for do so, are you
thinking of changing the executive remuneration structure because it's still very heavily
guided to the embedded value, whereas every single question on this call is based on the
cash earnings, which clearly more important to the market?
Thirdly. It's not -- if you grow your funds under management 10% and your expense is 5%,
obviously, there's a bit of an issue about funds coming in and going out of gestation.
What's the implication for that in terms of the underlying cash and earnings growth as you
see it?
And one thing just for one thing just for the May Investor Day. I'd be really interested not
now, but I'd be really interested then to see what the profile of productivity is on academy
recruits versus experienced IFRS because clearly that's going to have an issue on how the
timing picks up or has brought net flows pick up as you swing between those two?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. I'm just going to pick up the second one on the executive remuneration on behalf
of I guess Paul, and Remuneration Committee for moment.
We had our remuneration structure of proof by shareholders at the AGM last year. We are
clearly hearing the feedback about having a little bit more around cash and stuff in the
remuneration. So that will be factored into the future remuneration structure that comes
back to shareholders for approval next time.

Page 19 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

On investment performance, we've got Rob Gardener on the call. So I'm going to pass
that to Rob. So over to Rob.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, good morning. Andrew, both Andrews, can you hear me? Okay?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yes, we can hear you.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Look, So Andrew, I don't have the kind of blended bit. So I can kind of give you our
portfolios which as you know 70% of our sort of flows go into our portfolios. So our most
popular portfolio and this is probably the best representative was 5.03% net applicable
fees. And that was the 2020 total performance. Our other popular portfolio strategic
growth actually did 9% and our adventures did 7.6% and a lot of that was because we
restructured our IMA with our kind of three global funds, these kind of global quality,
global growth and global value and all that -- all of those three changes actually fared very
well in 2020. So 5% is probably a good start.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Well, I mean obviously for different clients, there's different benchmarks depending on
how they did? If you took a 60/40, FTSE yields portfolio that was sort of minus 2.5%. If you
took sort of MSCI World, as you know the very walls some 12.13%. I mean most of our
clients have historically been benchmarked to a kind of arc what the benchmark and while
we're trying to transition through is a more global outlook benchmark for our clients. But
each one of those is with reference to the amount of risk the client wants to take. So, the
managed portfolio is the 60-40 benchmark.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

It sounds Andrew as if we might link you up with Rob for conversation at some point in the
future. Craig, can I pass the underlying cash earnings question to you?

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Just very briefly. I suppose most people on this call have got their own models, so they'll
be able to plug in the data and come up with their own answer but I think at a high level,
the way I see this is that if you can contain the cost at a lower rate than the costs were
growing in the past, you get the immediate benefit of us cumulatively in any cash results
Page 20 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

over a planning period whereas if the growth in funds under management are lower,
when you take into account the fact that a sizable portion of that goes through a six-year
gestation period, you're not seeing any dis-benefit of a lower growth in firm. So if
anything there's a potentially positive impact there, but it's probably better for me to
leave people to their own models to calculate what they believe the answer would be.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Great. Okay. Thanks.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew. Thank you, Craig. Ruby, could we have the next question, please?

Operator
Absolutely. Our next question is from Andrew Baker of Citi. Your line is now open. Please
go ahead.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 3694545 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Hi everyone. And thanks for taking my question. Three from me if I may. So just on
the 10% slow growth. Are you able to give any expectations on time, you're expecting
lower growth in 2021, and then maybe a catch up thereafter, would you see it more even?
And then secondly, on advisor productivity. So as we come out of COVID, have the forced
learning for the first digital learning from the past year increased your productivity
expectations going forward for your advisor base?
And then finally just on the FSCS levy. Obviously the FDA has come out with a goal of
eventually redesigning the system to make the polluters pay. But do you have any sense
of when any -- when these changes might actually come through and any potential
benefit, if they do? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. I'll take the first question and hand over to Ian on the productivity and the FSCS to
Craig. The -- I mean firstly, this is a five-year planning cycle. So the 10% is expectation of
annual growth over that period. As I said in the presentation this morning, there will be
some years where we exceed that that and there will be other years where we may fall
short of that.
We are still in lockdown. We know we have said that we've seen moderate growth at the
start of this year. But the environment still challenging until we find ourselves out of social
distancing but as I said it is encouraging that we're seeing growth on last year, which was
a pre-pandemic comparator and obviously the comparators get relatively easier and we
will at some point hopefully being a comparator in a post pandemic world. So I got to say
again, we will be in that post pandemic world with a comparator that was in a pandemic
world. And therefore, that should be positive but you should see it as a five-year business
Page 21 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

planning cycle, not specific year-by-year, advisor productivity and technology and stuff,
Ian?

FINAL

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

Yes, Andrew, I think you may be answered the question yourself in the way you asked
that. There's certainly been a massive increase in learning via the partnership and using
technology as a way of interacting with clients during the COVID period. So as a face-toface advice business, the business levels of last year are being produced with partners
working from home working remotely and their clients also been in lockdown. The
learnings during that period as we take those into this year with the lessening of the
lockdown that the second half of the year being able to move back to a full service faceto-face service, supplemented by the learnings through the lockdown of working
remotely and interacting with clients and service in the remotely, does give us confidence
for productivity gains during the year.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

And I'm going to pass over to Craig on the FSCS levy.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Yeah. And I think he's picked up on the language there that the Chairman of the FCA. So I
think we're of the view that the FCA are very clear on where the challenge lies. Inevitably
and as I think, we made very clear at our half year, we're very supportive of the idea that
the polluters in the industry should pay. I'd add that by some means they need the
financial strength to be able to pay as well that's very important as and when -- as to
when this will actually happen and when we're going to see change, I'm afraid, I'm
probably no clearer now than I was at the half-year last time we had a similar conversation
but if there is a bright light on the horizon, it's the fact that our belief is that they're clear
on what the challenge is and what the outcome needs to be.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay, thank you, Craig. And Ruby, can we go to the next question, please?

Operator
Absolutely. Our next question is from Steven Hayward of HSBC. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Hi, Steven.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Thank you very much taking questions. I've got two if you don't mind.
On the Asian and DFM expenses. Now a day within the 5% growth target, are they
material really and are they going to be a worry over time? And on this Asia DFM, getting

Page 22 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

to the positive cash neutral stage by 2025 or 2024 quite impressive. Can you give us the
drivers of this?

FINAL

And then secondly, sorry. Probably AUM by 2025 is kind of your blue sky target of GBP260
billion AUM I think you said. Can you describe the drivers you need to get to that level of
AUM? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

I'm going to ask Craig to talk about Asia and DFM and they in the 5% or not?

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

So in short, no, because the way we see Asia and DFM is on a net investment basis. So,
the goal that we've set in the planning horizon is to turn what is currently a net investment
cost into breakeven and beyond as we've set out now that's not to say that they won't be
cost control. There will be cost control, but the way we plan for those investments is
different to the way we plan for the normal ongoing operational cost base for the
business.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Craig. In terms of opportunity and stuff, Ian Gascoigne on the line. So I'll ask Ian
in to come in a moment and just talk about Asia, just to pick on one of those two
investments.
In terms of funds under management Steven, the target is to exceed GBP200 billion and
that's doing the 10% sort of retaining the strong retention that we have with some
modest market growth at the GBP250 billion as I said in my tool, it was the stretched
target. That's gone that I threw down to St. James's Place. But you should very much see - in excess of GBP200 billion as being the unstretched target if you like.
Ian, if you're still on the line, just talk about Asia for moment.

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. Can you hear me?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yes, we can hear you.

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew. Thanks, Steven. Yeah, very briefly with really pleased with the 2020
numbers in Asia. We've seen in the release 27% growth in gross inflows, there is some
good progress on reducing the net cash investment. We've got a plan out to 2025, both
of those numbers continue to trend in the right direction. And we're really confident about
delivering early trading in both Hong Kong and Shanghai and Singapore, and 2021 has
been has been positive and we see some really good opportunities to recruit
Page 23 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

experienced people from private banks and family offices over the next few years that
are going to help us deliver those numbers basically. So yeah real confidence around the
delivering on them.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Ian. I'm conscious some of you are going to have to jump off in a moment, but
we have two more questions I think lined up in the queue. So we will answer both those,
but for those of you got to have to jump off. Thank you. Looking forward to meeting you
again soon. But in the meantime, please stay safe, where to find us. But Ruby, could you
go to the next question, please?

Operator
Absolutely. We have (inaudible) of Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks Ruby. Thanks Andrew, Craig. So three questions from me. The first one, how
sustainable is the 10% per annum sales growth beyond this year? Given that there's a
buildup of pent-up savings particularly during COVID?
Secondly, how sustainable is the 5% per annum controllable costs growth beyond GS5
given that the staff savings from the redundancies are all near-term. And then thirdly, just
looking at the academy. It feels like it's going to become a more important part of your
recruitment strategy if the market for existing advisors is in the decline, but we're seeing
news about other wealth managers starting their own academies or having also run them
for a few years. Are you seeing any impact from that on your own academy recruitment
and could this become an issue over the medium-term?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. I'm going to pass the academy question in a moment to Peter Edwards. In terms of
the 10% clearly there is a five-year planning cycle, but the market dynamics are very
exciting. So I am not going to sort of give a statement now, but we would expect to be
able to continue to grow beyond 2025 because the market is very exciting. And in terms
of the expenses, look Craig is a really mean CFO. So I'm pretty sure we can we can stick
to the 5% going forward as well. But Craig, do you want to add anything on that?

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

I think -- this is Andrew says this is a five-year planning cycle, but I can't imagine for one
minute that when the next five-year planning cycle is done. We won't be putting ourselves
under pressure to make sure we take advantage of all the things that are available to us
to be better at doing things more effectively because this is a win-win result. So whether
it's 5%, 4%, 6% that's for the next planning cycle. But I believe this is sustainable. Yes.
Page 24 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Craig. And Peter, if you want to just comment on the Academy, if you would?

FINAL

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, Andrew. I think that it's really interesting that all those are indeed entering this
space in terms of their desire to grow their distribution. And that's not new of course,
people have historically tried to grow their own say to speak. I think what makes our
Academy slightly different is, we have been developing, refining and improving the
Academy over a decade. And I think you referenced earlier Andrew, but a lot of the
learnings that we have taken through the COVID period will in fact enhance and develop
our ability to flex the intakes, some the academy allowing those to basically move away
from the traditional model that we've refined for that.
I think an important question around the impact of others starting that academies on our
ability to attract people, I don't believe that is the case that you think that we have a very
refined model and it delivers what we required in terms of growth for our business, but
it's an important thing to note that almost most 90% of people who apply to the academy
are not selected to start a program, so that the bar for entry into the academy is very
high. So we anticipate maintaining that high standard of entry and we have a very positive
feeling about the growth from that sector in terms of manpower over the foreseeable
future

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Peter. We have one final question in the queue. So Ruby, if we could take the
next question, please.

Operator
Absolutely. That is from Greg Simpson of Exane. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Q - Gregory Simpson

{BIO 18850594 <GO>}

Good morning, all. I just -- a few questions from my side. The first of this if perhaps 5%
expense growth target, is that independent of those market levels, or is it something you
might look to flex up or down if the equity markets are particularly strong or weak in a
given year rather than the modest level you're budgeting for?
And the second question, I was wondering about the pipeline in terms of experienced
recruitment, if you're seeing any increased interest from IFAs, who maybe seen the
importance of having access to strong technology because of COVID19 or do you think
that the academy is going to be the main growth driver of headcount growth going
forward?
And then just lastly. We seem to be seeing a lot of demand at the industry level for
alternative assets. Could you provide any color on how the relationship with KPIs that you
talked about a few years ago is going? And if there's any scope to launch more private

Page 25 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

market funds going forward? I would guess that's something that smaller wealth
managers can't offer access to their clients? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thank you, Greg. And I'll get Peter back in a moment on the pipeline and Rob back on
the alternative. But Craig, do you want to just talk about 5% growth target again?

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Yeah. I think it's fair to say what we've done here is we've set ourselves a plan or goal of
financial envelope call it what you will, that we intend to stick to. So, I don't think it's the
case that for example if we found, we were experiencing stellar performance on the
market this year that we would feel that gives us a license to go outside of that because
what this represents is a whole series of commitments that we plan to make over the
coming years and their commitments in pursuit of particular outcomes, whether it'd be
improved processes or new technology, so I wouldn't say gearing up or down with the
markets. Other than to say that in the real world, if god forbids, there was something that
really held backing come, we're no different to any other business you'd have to reassess
your plans and make sure you've reprioritized based on the conditions that you find
yourself in. But no, I don't I don't see any reason for stretch on this.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, Craig. And Rob, do you want to just pick up where we are with the tax
front and sort of other assets and our sheer scale and what it gives us?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yes, it's good question. So that front with (inaudible) sort of betting in and the challenge
of private assets is always the sort of deployment of cash and getting the cash in the
ground and I suppose just being open to other challenge is having a liquid assets in what
it is in effect a liquid vehicle. The advantage we have because of our the structure of our
business means that we can do that.
As we look forward to 2025, my job is to ensure that we have the capacity for GBP250
billion and actually for the next five years after that all the way through to GBP500 billion.
So we are working on a liquid asset building block where we can leverage of the work that
we do on that and exactly as you say the opportunity to create bespoke assets solutions
that just aren't available to other players in the marketplace is the opportunity. I just want
to caution the other bit which you heard from Andrew is that we've cleaned up and signed
up the owners are aligned and are plan to achieve that, so it's just trying to make sure
those do work in tandem.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Rob. And Peter, just want to talk about the pipeline and sort of IFA
market in general?

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}
Page 26 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

Yeah, thank you. So in terms of pipeline, I think the important thing to recognize but
someone who is currently in advice professional other than with a St. James's Place, the
journey to decide to leave where they couldn't be asked St. James's Place and in many
instances can be over a significant period of time.
So part of the reason we paused recruitment in that space during the lockdowns and
COVID of 2020, was to allow people to focus on their clients. However, we have
remained engaged with high numbers of these people. And they are indeed very
engaged with St. James's Place. There's a huge interest in joining St. James's Place from
across the advice profession.
But I think again along with what I said about the academy, the selection points will be able
to join the partnership is quite high which means that we take a significant period of time
selecting the right people to join the partnership.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the advice landscape and certainly, the IFA marketplace, what I would say is? It
doesn't look like it's going to get any easier to operate as an IFA. Indeed, the burden of
responsibility on individuals and businesses looks ever more difficult. So we do have high
levels of contact, high levels of interest, and we have high levels of retention of people
who do make the decision to join the partnership when the time is right.
I think the confidence I have in this marketplace is that, as the Academy has grown and
developed and we have increased in size and scope. The blend of experienced advisors
from an IFA or total advice background along with these new joiners gives us that a
correct age profile, because the profile -- the age profile in the IFA market is significantly
higher than that in the academy or in the -- even the partnership.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Peter. I'm going to call the Q&A to close now. So thank you, everyone.
Thank you, Ruby for facilitating. And obviously, you have any questions then please get in
contact. So, thank you again, everyone.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect your line.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
Page 27 of 28



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

