Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adam Westwood, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director
Geoff Carter, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director
James Ockenden, Chief Actuary
Trevor Webb, Claims Director

Other Participants
Alex Evans
Benjamin Cohen
Faizan Lakhani
Ivan Bokhmat
Ming Zhu
Nicholas Harcourt Johnson
Robert Murphy

Bloomberg Transcript

Thomas Bateman

Presentation
Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. Well I know it is a very hectic morning for
some of you. It's almost exactly a year since we found ourselves unexpectedly during our results
presentation via Zoom. Not really sure I've moved very far from this chat, since we did the last
results presentation. Certainly, the first one (inaudible) shared in the last year. We're very much live
and in person as you can tell probably are fine whoever speaks, while on mute.
As we go through these slides we are very conscious that COVID is not just a claims frequency
issue, there's been some real human impacts, some of which have impacted us here at Sabre as
well. So I think it's important to keep our presentation this morning within that context. We're going
to move through this fairly quickly, I'm trying to leave plenty of time for questions at the end.
Though some other formats are normal and we have at various points given (inaudible) to our
internal insurance's nerdiness.
A few more of a speak in the normal as we don't have to run up and down to the podium. Myself
and Adam will do most the presentation, Trevor will talk about claims inflation and James will talk
about how we've gone through pricing. As we go through this presentation if there's any technical
faults that you can't hear you got here are the screens aren't moving on. Please put that in the chat
when we get to questions at the end. If you can use this for the hands up facility and Han Row,
who's facilitating will open up your screen, will open up your camera and your mic to take
questions.
So, today's agenda the highlights financial results. We will as usual give you a fairly full view on
market context as we say that. A little bit on our investment case and then a summary and outlook
for next year. So our financial highlights, continued absolute focus on profitability. The key thing for
us is being to maintain very strong foundations during quite a complicated and turbulent year.
COVID-19 is clearly impacted our premium. On the flip side, we've experienced reductions in
claims, in traffic and claim frequency. We looked to pass the benefits on to customers while pricing



FINAL

appropriately as we've seen, we do traffic ahead of us, but we have had residual benefits which
gives us a loss ration benefit in this year. (inaudible) will talk about, reflects the quite a lot of moving
parts actually in the year, which we'll talk about later in this presentation.
We're very pleased to pay our full year dividend slightly complicated way of describing it this year.
If you include the deferred special from last year is 21.2 if you exclude that 16 pence. SER coverage
203% post-dividend, pre-dividend 155, post dividend very comfortably within our range. You can
see on the right hand side, good net loss ratio, expense ratio slightly up mainly because premiums
down, and the combined ratio very much in line with our long-term target.

Bloomberg Transcript

The operational highlights really supported customers and staff throughout this period. We've
maintained pricing discipline as we've gone through this year. Our prices are up by in excess of
10% in a market where previously probably been flat or slightly reduced. So we've maintained a
strong foundation for future growth, which we'll come back to. We've covered long-run claims
inflation. We've continued to optimize volume within our 70% to 80% combined operating range
and we launched about five or six new rating factors during the year to ensure our price and
sophistication remains at the forefront. We are continuing to expand our presence in the van and
testing new ways of raising and some footprint expansion, now. The Saga opportunity has been
inevitably delayed as we weren't able to get on site to test the new product, but we anticipate
that, going live in Q2. As I said we've maintained very strong foundations for growth.
The other activities, we've had a minor operational restructure that's really to allow us to
accommodate the growth we see coming with a increase in our headcount which will benefit our
expense ratio. We're in the process of test launching our new cloud-based rating and
administration system to sit alongside our current setup. This allows us to test new products very
quickly and very cheaply, we'll talk more about that later. We think, this gives us an ability to test just
moving slightly sideways from our current footprint. We maintained all employees on full pay and
we continue to pay raises and bonuses as we go into this year. All employees on work-from-home
at virtually no additional cost. Very detailed plans in place to respond to the forthcoming regulatory
changes which we'll describe in much more detail later.
And as I -- I'm going to reiterate price increase in excess of 10% to ensure we are entering this
year very fully funded. Finally, our roadmap to carbon-neutral is being developed and we'll publish
more as we go through this year. COVID is clearly impacted in a couple of ways.
Premium, we've looked to past back or to appropriately allow for the premium discounts as we
enter this lockdown period and James will describe in more detail how we've gone through that.
Premium is significantly down due to a lack of car sales. Young drivers entering the market. There is
normally about 1.6 million driving test a year in the UK about a 50% cars [ph] rate. So a very
substantial number of young drivers haven't enter the market this year or last year adding to this
year. And clearly, car sales, especially second-hand car sales have been very limited. So they could
have an impact on the availability of premium in the market.
How quickly volumes bounce back will really depend on how quickly and will lock down loosens. We
think April, the 12th is quite a key date when hopefully car driving tests can recommence and car
showrooms open up again.
The flip side, claims factors, short-term benefits, reduced traffic I think is well understood perhaps
less well spoken about is that theft is not down by the same proportion. Launch of PI claim
settlement had been significantly slower to settle. There have been delays of court and delays in
obtaining medical evidence for obvious reasons. And we don't yet know how consumer behavior
reacts as lockdowns ends. Really what does the new normal look like, is it 100%, is it 105, is it 85, is
there some sort of curve as we go through the next few months, is probably one of the unknown
factors.



So our first highlights. I want to hand to Adam, who will go through the financial highlights.

FINAL

Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Thanks, Geoff. Hi everyone, thanks for joining us remotely this morning. I'm going to run through
the financial highlights for 2020. So, I'll talk through our results, focusing on premiums, claims,
expenses and dividends. I'll try to highlight the impact that the unique market conditions during '20
had on each. Our monoline model really allows us to present a straightforward set of results. So,
test the slides. Great.
So the headline premium of 173.2 million is down on 2019. It's largely due to our maintaining strict
pricing discipline during challenging conditions in 2020 which is something I want to pick in the next
few slides. Our combined operating ratio was in line with our expectation and the guidance we
issued for the year at around 75%. Looking through that we'll see that's the result of a very strong
loss ratio as an uptick in our expense ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

On investment return, we've removed some of the volatility here by classifying the assets in our
buy-and-hold portfolio at fair value through other comprehensive income. So, our investment
return grew in 2020 onwards, reflects the effective interest rate on assets hold. Removing the
temporary impact of market value movements. The return of 1.4 million is therefore effectively the
long-term yield across our portfolio. Profit before tax of 49.1 million, remains primarily a function of
our premium and income and combined ratio. With decrease in earned premium and slight uptick
in combined ratio, follows that our profit is down in 2020, which consequently feeds through to
earnings per share.
We've made the decision to pay out effectively a 100% of our earnings as a dividend for 2020. The
2020 dividend quoted on this slide firstly includes the 5.2p deferred special dividend in respect to
2019, which was paid at the interim stage. After the payment of the year-end dividend our solvency
coverage ratio remains very comfortable at 155%.
So, I'm going to dig into a little of what's been driving on top line during 2020. Underlying all of this
remains our basic philosophy. We'll chase profit not volume making sure we priced our policies to
cover all the associated costs. Because of this, despite the temporary impacts of COVID we've
continued to price in our long-term view of claims inflation. That's against the market backdrop of
static or shrinking average premiums over the last few years. We still believe that a significant
correction to market pricing is required.
As you can see from this graph, which shows our price changes versus the market. (inaudible)
during 2020, we did reduce our rates to reflect our assumptions of the temporary reductions in
claims frequency during various lockdowns. James will give you a bit more detail on how we
thought about pricing as the pandemic progressed. These discounts were always based on our
best view of the cost attaching policies. We were never going to chase the market down. We
believe that these discounts on new and renewing business were fair and proportionate without
undermining overall profitability.
We suspect that some in the market were discounting far more heavily particularly during the most
severe periods of lockdown, which of course, have an impact on our competitiveness, our overall
premium. But the relative levels of discounting weren't the only issue. This slide shows the relative
levels of quotes for new policies received through price comparison websites versus the same
point in 2019.
At Sabre, we've always been skewed more heavily towards new rather than renewing business. So
during those periods of low shop around during 2020, we think the less premium was available to
us. All of which, means our premium during the year, bit like this. You can see that we started to
build a little momentum during Q1 pre-COVID where rates appear to be hardening. Then during



FINAL

lockdown we saw a significant dip in our premium income. This recovered strongly immediately
post lockdown, but then shrunk and restrictions were reintroduced. So we expect our dipping topline income to be explained through primarily a loss of competitiveness relative to the market as
competitors policies were over-discounted, and a significant reduction in the events, which would
normally drive new business towards us such as new drivers entering the market and car sales. It's
perhaps testament to our competitiveness within the more specialist areas of the market that
despite this, we retained our premium at 88% of 2019 levels across the year.
Now, the other significant impact of the pandemic on our business, which was our claims
experience. The headlines, our loss ratio is down year-on-year to 48.6%. Our expense ratio is up to
26.7%. I'll talk you through our loss ratio first. We can spit it into the cost recorded in respect of
accidents in 2020, which start currently a loss ratio, and the movements on our estimated cost of
settling claims recorded in previous years, which is our prior-year loss ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the current year loss ratio, this came in at 51.2% which is 11.6% below last year indicating more
favorable claim experience. It's slightly this improvement was primarily driven by the reduction in
claims frequency due to fewer miles traveled by policyholders in 2020. While we did discount new
renewing policies in order to reflect these savings, the improve loss ratios came through largely on
business written pre-lockdown or where with underestimates the benefits. Our reserved position
continues to reflect our consistent long-term approach and allows for increased volatility on the
latest claims.
We move to the market slowdown settlement of personal injury claims, which is of course, also
reflected in our reserves. The prior loss ratio benefit is relatively low compared to previous year's
at 2.6%. We've always said that the benefit from prior years will reduce as our model normalizes
and exceptional reserve releases drop away. I previously said that this would lead to a normal prior
reserve benefit around 4% to 5%, which would largely reflect the run-up of risk margins and open
claims. The prior year benefits lower than that in part, because we have modestly increased our
provision to cover things like, increasing costs of providing care, particularly in respect of potential
periodic payment orders but also affected by the large claims.
Overall, our reserving methodology has been completely consistent with our views on the ultimate
cost of claims representing the best data available at the right time. Onto our expense ratio, which
is increased year-on-year to 26.7%.
This next slide shows a simple bridge between the 2019 and 2020 position. You may recall that
2019, is one of the cruel release of a little over GBP3 million, which obviously didn't recur in 2020.
Otherwise, we face some cost pressures from increasing industry lobbies, increases an audit costs
and the cost attached recruiting new members to our Board. Although we've largely offset these
costs by keeping a tight control over our core expense base. The main route driver of our increase
in expense ratio is the reduction in our income. While we have a significant elements of variable
costs, but dipping premium will always have an adverse effect in our expense ratio.
We've maintained our staffing levels on full pay throughout the pandemic and the rewarded our
staff with bonuses during the year despite the decrease in volumes. We're forward looking, so
capital to manage the risk of overwhelming operations should growth surge back as it has done in
the past. Moving slowly remote working has been broadly cost neutral with a small cost attached to
running additional service negated by lower cost of running the business during the year. I should
also add that we haven't taken advantage of any government assistance during lockdown.
I've added this slide to help observers when trying to compare expense ratios across the market.
Our expense ratios all in, as we're relatively small monoline business, there's no way to hide our
costs. All of our costs including head office expenditure, shares gain expenses, marketing costs
and commission are wrapped up in our expense ratio. This next slide shows our allocation of
invested access at the year-end. Our new asset management relationship with Goldman Sachs
was timely given the economic turmoil persisted throughout 2020.



FINAL

During the year, we step carefully into a more diversified, but still very low risk portfolio of assets.
The highly-rated corporate and government bonds performed well during the air with no
significant downgrades or losses. Our strategy centers on capital preservation in our investment
portfolio, while attempting to earn a reasonable yield on the low risk assets. The way we record
income and investments that's a little different this year. As I mentioned earlier, because we
generally hold all our assets to maturity, the amount recognized in profit is the effective interest on
those assets, which is reflected for the yield to maturity.
Short-term market value fluctuations in the bonds are now taken below the line. Whereas in 2019,
all fair value movements were taken through profit. Dividend, our approach continues to be to
return excess capital shareholders with that access being defined with reference to our current
circumstances, while keeping the post dividend period end capital in a 140% to 160% range. This
year, we've chosen to payout 100% of our earnings which takes us a little way into our capital
range, but still leaves us, plenty of headroom. Our full year dividend excluding the deferred 5.2
pence with respect to 2019, is 16 pence per share.
My last slide is, one-off trend in the past, our capital position over time. As you can see we remain
strongly capitalized. As we generate excess capital very quickly, our capital position is tended to
exceed our preferred range. Mainly because of the time between calculating the capital available
to fund a dividend and paying that dividend. We continue to aim to hold post dividend period-end
capital in the 140% to 160% range and with the post-dividend capital distribution of 155% at year
end. We're very comfortably inside it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. And now back to Geoff.

Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you, Adam. I'll just grab back control of the screen.

Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Okay. We are as usual going to give you our views on where the markets at. For these first few
slides, I will drive the screen and James will talk. So we're going to go down in screen. Next slide,
please. Approach. James, you all have to pick up.

James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Sure. Morning, everybody. Okay. So we thought use this morning a bit of an opportunity to kind of
describe how we went about pricing during 2020 with respect to COVID-19. So this is COVID-19
specific as opposed to the underlying kind of claims inflation. But I guess it's important to reiterate
what Adam said which was that we kind of -- we stuck to our knitting in terms of our pricing
discipline. And when the lockdown struck in March 2020, what we've got here is a chart which
shows our volumes, premium volume, the yellow bars. And then we've taken the government
traffic volumes as a starting point. And if I can have the next slide, we were looking to predict what
would happen based on what we could see so far. So, I think it's fair to say, the lockdown started
and we entered the first couple of -- the first week in April, the first thing we didn't do was have a
knee-jerk reaction. We stayed firm, collected some data from both models to take a view based
on the information that was out there, as to how we think we're going to price going forward.
Because clearly, we were pricing a policy at this point for the next 12 months and with quite a lot of
uncertainty around what was going to happen and what we could see was the traffic volume is
down.
So I guess this first yellow, the first yellow line shows what we thought would happen to relative
traffic and that was one of the inputs we use to get into our premium calculation appreciating again
as the guys said that you've got things like fraud, you got things like theft not reducing during
lockdowns, and then you've got this kind of knock-on effect on claim severity, increased severity



FINAL

costs potentially owing to COVID. So this was really just a starting point as to how we were thinking
about how frequency might turn out, as of April 20. We can have the next slide, please.
So you can see this is the government data and how things started to evolve. So actually we didn't
get it too bad actually. I mean we undercooked a little and you can see the volumes really came
up, but on average over the period we were kind of in the right ballpark. And then I think as more
information -- we unlocked over the summer -- more information became available and at that
point, I mean things were kind of going back to normal. I think if we go on another slide. Thank you.
We then kind of saw schools went back, traffic was as nearest to normal as it had previously been.
But then obviously we had the announcement that would be going into a lockdown during
November and December -- halfway through November to December and we could see, we took
an estimate at that point as to what would happen and you can see our estimate wasn't too in line
with the government, actually what happened with hindsight.

Bloomberg Transcript

So you've kind of got November and December kind of up and down, with December up because
you've got a Christmas effect wherever we knew everyone was going to be allowed out for
Christmas so to speak, so we thought the time turns out, they went out and -- as long. And we
took of view at that point that as that December that we -- which is the view that we didn't know
we were going to go into a full lockdown from first part of 2021. But we had a feeling that we
weren't going to certainly return to normal. So we took a view on where the traffic was going to be
and where that would impact claims numbers and therefore, reflected that in the premiums. So if
we got the next slide, please.
Actually, what happened was then as we got the new information that we would be in a lockdown
we redid the pricing. So each of these kind of iterations is a summary point of different iterations of
pricing and as soon as we found out we were going back into a full lockdown from the beginning
of January effectively we changed our assumptions around the pricing. And I guess this really
reflects one of our of our most recent assumptions around pricing, which is we think we'll be back
towards what I would call normal, whatever normal looks like around the June, July mark this year.
But -- and so far I guess it's showing with our modeling hasn't been a million miles out in terms of
the shape with respect to the actual observed traffic volumes. I think what we're kind of assuming
is the unwinding of lockdown measures we saw over last summer is going to be very similar in
terms of behavior, in terms of traffic volumes. But like I say, we -- our expectation based on the
information we have from the government and (inaudible) is that we'll be back to normal by -around about July. And so in terms of traffic anyway, sorry.

Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you James . So James has totally master degree and I don't. So he did those slides. Mine
was a simple summary (inaudible) applied very scientifically valid discounts in a cautious way for
limited periods. That price is reflected in declines by lower policy life not current profitability. Some
portion was benefited this year is loss ratio and our view is over discounts are not optimistic
assumptions that have very severe long-lasting but quite slow to emerging back and we've been
very keen to avoid that risk.
I guess some for those you who known us for a few years, know we expect to shrink and grow in
various market cycles. On here you can see our year-end policy numbers in the GWP. I think our
view is that COVID feels like it's extended, the down part of the -- the weak part of the market
cycle by around a year. We see no reason why that market isn't going to turn. We saw very strong
evidence at the start of this year of market rate increases like to come through. So if we look back
on, we're just over here. We're putting through quite a lot of price discounts and our volume was
holding very steady. So very clear indication at start of this year the market price increases coming
through. Clearly that all got stamped on when lockdown came in as market prices shrunk again.
We've seen some fits and starts attempts and to re-increase rates. But fundamentally, it doesn't
seem to have happened in the market. Within there is a risk the claims frequency benefits in this
year's P&L blind competitors. The some of the underlying claims cost increases or our race to
behold lower for longer.



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

To reiterate traffic reduction is not directly proportional to claims cost, because of things like theft
claims. So we firmly believe that for many competitors rates need to adjust pretty sharply upwards
in the near future. We have already dusted down our sort of scales of inflation versus deflation, for
the eagle-eyed amongst, you will spot this looks almost exactly the same as last year already.
COVID relating adjustments, suppress changes happening. We're going to talk through these little
bit in detail. And for the first one is Trevor, you're going to talk through the claims impacts, if that's
okay.

Trevor Webb

{BIO 21909270 <GO>}

Thanks Geoff, and good morning, everybody. So overall our view of inflation remains pretty
consistent in that bucket of 7.5% to 8%. I guess what I would say is missing from this slide is the
impact of theft in terms of severity. But as we've outlined both from Geoff and from James, theft
remains an issue in terms of frequency. But main drivers are around first and third-party property
damage inflation of 10% to 12% and I'll unpack that in a couple of slides that I'm going to go
through and we've also got personal injury severity inflation of between 5% and 6%. And I guess if
you think that in terms of general damages that viable to the valuation of the judicial college
guidelines came out at the end of 2019 and that had 7% impact in terms of inflation there. So I think
overall these things tied together. We'd expect to see our competitors in a range around our
numbers. Thanks, Geoff.
Okay, so just sort of looking at what's happening around Bent Metal. We're seeing increased cost
of parts. I'm just going to take you through some examples in the next couple of slides. We also
believe that there are still to come potential post Brexit impacts on the, obviously at the moment
we've got significantly reduced volume. So the full story isn't yet unfolding. There is greater use of
credit repair models by our competitors. So over the last couple of years we've probably seen
something like 25% increase in the proportion of claims that go through a credit repair model
versus a normal insurance subrogated model. And of course costs under a repair or under a credit
repair model are higher than the traditional costs and we're seeing higher levels of inflation there.
And increase on repair cost is driving an increase in total loss valuations. Now, we look to combat
these inflation factors by managing our own damage claims in our network alongside our partner
Innovation Group. And of course, we're looking to control third-party cost where we can really to
mitigate the industry driven increases. Thanks, Geoff.
So with Innovation Group who manage both our first notifications, loss facility and our repair
network, we enjoyed a material increase in terms of the buying power that we would have stood
alone. So I'd like to thank them for some analysis that they've provided to support this
presentation, really by providing some detail in relation to repair costs across the basket of vehicle.
So what we've done is we've taken the most popular car makers and the list is there really just to
look at how the cost of commonly damaged parts has been moving over time. So if we look at the
first one, please Geoff. So this is the average cost of a car park for those top 10 manufacturers and
you'll see between 20, 20 and 2019 we had an 8% increase with a significant increase across 2017
to 2018. So, this is year-on-year increases that we've seen for a number of years now and these
are parts that need to be fitted to these common vehicles.
So we've broken this down in the next slide between, we take a right headlamp. So this is typically
a component that will be damaged in a folk accident. So where a vehicle may have gone into the
rear of another, this headlamp technology has moved on the increased costs. Last year, we saw an
increase in excess of 17% in terms of the average cost of that component. Then if we look at a folk
accident, so a rear bumper where we're clearly we gone into the back of somebody, again inflation
on that component of almost 10% across that average jump basket of vehicles. Thank you, Geoff.
So we're facing into some other premium inflation factors. We finally got the rules over 100 pages
of rules and practice directions in relation to the Civil Liability Act and the changes to Whiplash. So,
we now know that it will be implemented from the 31st of May this year on an accident occurrence
basis. So accidents on or after the 31, May will be subject to the new rules and the new tariff.



The original estimate was that there will be savings of circa 30 pence per policy in relation to cost
savings from the introduction of the new Whiplash reforms.

FINAL

Our hans [ph] view is currently we believe that benefit will be materially less. That's partly due to
the fact that there has been improved personal injury claims experience in terms of frequency
across the last few years and that's prior to the COVID. So we were seeing a gradual reduction
generally in terms of AI frequency.
I think a word of caution however that it was going to be some time before impacts can be
properly confirmed and assessed. These claims do take some time to settle and therefore, it's
going to be a year or two before we're getting a good idea in terms of how severity is looking and
frequency is looking in relation to these Whiplash reforms.
So we're continuing to see significant ongoing claims inflation. As I said previously, our current view
is between 7.5% and 8% driven by increased costs due to technology in the newer vehicles and
more of a push in terms of credit repair models. If current dynamics continue we see no reason
why they shouldn't, then we do anticipate with there would be competitor margin squeeze. It may
now be a significant market turn, whilst we don't know exactly when as claims frequencies return to
a normal position on claims inflation, which is always been there and through we think that will be
putting pressure on the market rates. Thanks, Geoff.

Bloomberg Transcript

Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks, Geoff. We've discussed in previous sessions that clams inflation's only really one part of
the overall cost inflation. There are some other things going on. The first is the MIB levy. The MIB
are that is going to increase due to the (inaudible) the recent Supreme Court judgement on the
(inaudible) suggest that we may be not picking up those liabilities through MIB, but there work to
go on how that works and indeed when that cuts in. MIB has also taken up the operational costs of
being MOJ.
The FSCS levy doesn't get spoken about so much. But it's quite an important factor. There's 100%
increase in general insurance levies this year and it's not a particularly small number, there have
been several insurance companies, five years and I suspect there may be other periodical insurer,
five years to come. Clearly impacts different issuers in different ways. I guess a higher volume low
margin issuer may take more time through this process is just part of our overall cost inflation
assumptions. A big thing is the FCA pricing review which I know has been spoken about many
other sessions. I think everybody is aware that this effectively bans price walking between new
business and renewals. I am not hearing much industry pushback on the fact these reforms would
come through. I am hearing quite a lot of pushback on the timescale. I guess our view is that
shouldn't be that long needed. What's been proposed has been known for quite some time as a
potential solution.
We believe there is a real risk of some insurers operating, something about how maybe strategy
to just track the ball forward along way to build the portfolio as much as possible before the FCA
reforms come into place. It's a last trial [ph] to try and build a book before the new business where
all price has come through. We suspect that may come in to the market. Some people might
execute that well, others may be forced into copying may not executed so well. We don't intend to
indulge ourselves in that going. On the reinsurance cost, reinsurance cost increased at 31.12 as you
know where our reinsurance renewal is mid-year. (inaudible) about 5% increase besides price
depended on your own claims experience.
I think we would agree with some previous comments that the value, on the lower levels is looking
a bit shaky. So we will think about how we know what strategy as we go into this half year, but we
won't make any fundamental changes to our approach.



FINAL

Bloomberg Transcript

This I think is perhaps one of the key slides actually in the presentation. We've decided to steer our
own path. I think it's fair to say as we've come to through this COVID impacted period. We decided
not to follow people down the rabbit hole of choices, reduced volume by over-discounting
premiums. We believe that leaves us in a very fully funded position as we sit here today. If we think
about the tailwinds that might swing in over the next 12 to 18 months, it reflected on here what we
think will happen in market and how that may impact us. This is not necessarily in date order, we
don't know when these tailwinds kickoff. But some of the things that we think will have to happen
here. Some competitors already have Whiplash MOJ reform discounts in their prices. We have not
yet fully put our employees, so we have some amendments to make on that.
Many competitors most still have some pretty big COVID discounts to unwind as James described
we haven't really done that. We have a very minimal amount of discount from wan [ph] from this
position as quote volumes increase and we hope that start coming from April the 12th. We should
benefit from that increased volume coming through the market from car sales and new drivers
starting to take driving test again. We do believe there is a significant market pricing correction
needed we don't need to do that. We need to cover ongoing claims inflation in a disciplined way
we don't need to correct. And as I think probably most people on this call know we don't
differentiae price between new and renewal business.. So as the FCA pricing impacts come in that
does involve market new business price increases we don't need to do that. We can hold our
prices. So generally across this line, we would expect to see our competitive position improved as
a next period goes by because we've been very disciplined in maintaining proper, effective fully
funded pricing through the last year or so.
I want to spend just a few minutes talking about the investment case. I'm very conscious many of
you have seen this before. This first slide continues to be our key principles maintain a wide
underwriting footprint at the moment, we're quoting for I think around 99% of risks in the UK. So
anyone coming to a price comparison website can expect to see a price -- or a consistent margin
approach. Market-leading underwriting footprint. So we're continuing to target in mid 70s
combined. Strong cash returns and controlled growth across the market.
Average quality premium last year was over GBP2,000 and written premium was over GBP1,000.
So we maintain our slightly non-standard positioning. The largest premium last year, interest and it
was over GBP30,000 for one risk and we had several premiums over GBP20,000 on the other
side of the claims, our lowest premium was GBP150 then we had a lot of those as well. So we're
very happy to write premiums very high or relatively low, add a consistent rather consistent margin.
I'd hope we've managed to demonstrate our (inaudible) after three of these principles. The one's
we're looking forward to demonstrating now is the control growth across the market, which we do
believe is coming. Our pricing approach we put this in last year the Bullseye for us in stable market
conditions is 75% combined. I think we were quite clear last year in a soft market with right tools to
right hand side of this graph and we were prepared to write much near 80% combined. We only
really expect to be below 75% where we've been able to either some good news as conflict,
unexpected good news where we've increased prices because growth is outstripping ability to
operationally handle that.
Absolute focus on profitable business. With a key thing here is our combined ratio has been very
consistently outperform the market for a very long time and we don't intend to upset the apple
carts on this because of the slightly complicated year that we've just been through. I think
important on our profitability, it goes up and down in a range, but we avoid boom and bust, so if
you look at our profit here the bottom line you can see it reasonably smooth, it goes up and down
a bit, but we're looking to maintain a regular flow of dividend and a sustainable traffic going
forward.
Adam mentioned, our (inaudible) is capital as we described before, we really focused on lots of
profit. We have a prudent use of insurance, a low-risk investment portfolio and consistent
preserving when we see bad news coming through claims cost will reflect that very quickly



FINAL

reserving. We won't shy away from it all, kick the can down the road on that. Well, I will do it in flow
was Adam says, up and around 100% of earnings. We've been very clear that we're prepared to
use our capital ratio to support the dividend in weaker parts of the cycle, clearly as we go through
'21 and '22 we'll be only through lower premiums and we're absolutely compared to look at using
our capital range to support the dividend as we go through that period.
These are competitive advantages. High-quality underwriting always going to be at the center of
our business. We have data lake full of the data that we have collected in a consistent way over the
last 18 or 20 years. We use cutting-edge data enrichment, sophisticated pricing models and the
scientific taking the human impact and subjectivity out of our pricing models. Cost advantage as
Adam has described, we outsource where it's beneficial but we're very happy to invest in things
that make a difference, we invested a lot of money in price enrichment and we've maintained, and
intend to maintain our headcount and claims ahead of that anticipated growth despite the fact we
have excess capacity at the moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Distribution split between brokers and direct we get the best of both worlds. We are channel
agnostic where it comes when we make effectively the same profit either one [ph] This is a bit of
personal bugbear for me, if I'm being honest. This is some stuff that I've cut and pasted from
some recent sales pitch documents (inaudible) automated underwriting, state-of-the-art pricing,
data lakes, technology, automation, lightning fast speed, API links. It all sounds very good and very
modern.
I do wonder whether people think we set about with scrolls and quills when we do our
underwriting, the point here is we do all of these things as well. And I guess we had the additional
element that we have got a proven ability of a many years to make a profit as well. Growth, we
really thought the 2020 will be the start of the growth phase for us and the first month to
reconfirm that with the price increases we saw in the market. As we described COVID as help back
that (inaudible) I guess everything we describe says we are pretty confident growth is on the
horizon, the timers like be uncertain, but it is coming.
We see growth being driven by two main pillars and potentially supported by two others. And
important within this any growth initiatives have to fit within our dividend focus strategy. We won't
undermine our ability to pay dividends to attract growth.
So this is our sort of pillars and our focus pretty much works from left to right across these pillars.
The key thing for us is to optimize and maximize what we already done in our existing products.
The second column is product expansion. We described that we're looking where we are rolling
out some value changes this year. We have other thoughts on some product enhancements and
some product -- adjacent product development later this year.
Going forward we probably expected to research and test and potentially launch two new product
adjacent initiatives a year. To the third column, if you identify opportunities we have don't the
skillet, but prepared to think about recruiting people to help us with that,. But the DNA of those
people and their culture must be completely aligned to what we do.
And last and in this place definitely least is M&A, with better look at M&A, but it must be good
value and it must be complementary and supportive of our wider strategy. So our growth strategy
very much from left to right across these pillars.
So the wrap up, on the summary very focused on our long-term strategy we haven't amended and
we don't intend to amend it. We believe growth is coming in foreseeable future. We describe the
tailwinds exactly when they start to flow with a little uncertain, we're pretty confident coming this
year. In the meantime, we're confident we can maintain our profitability, natural variation, the
absolute level of profit as volumes flex and our pricing discipline over the last 12 months has given
us a very strong foundation to continue to pay dividends and take advantage of growth.



So by some fluke that was exactly 45 minutes. I mean now have time for Q&A. If you can use the
Raise Hand function. Han will open your mic and individual camera, if you happy to be seen and
we'll happy to take any questions.

FINAL

Han, over to you.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Hi, Geoff. So first question will be from Ming Zhu.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Ming, hi, can you hear us? Any help? Ming, I think you maybe on mute?

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good morning. Thank you for the presentation. Just three questions for me please. Since you've
already increase your price more than 10%. How come you still got in the combined ratio in the sort
of a mid-70s target for this year and I thought that is really a long-term target given, where we are
now with the lockdown. I was expecting things could be better than that.
And the second is I think previously you've commented that your customers are not that pricesensitive. So given your top line and challenge last year. I just want to get a color in terms of the
non-standard risk target market has that thought shrink a little bit? Is that weather challenges?
And also my third question is, what is really a normal level of reserve release going forward? Thank
you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay, I'll take the second. I don't even seeing a lot and maybe James you can comment on
reserve releases. So I think on the price sensitivity I mean we said at IPO. We thought around threequarters of our portfolio at that time was non-standard. If you look at what's happened to
premium, we are pretty much have ended up around that sort of level. So we don't believe, we
really lost any competitiveness in non-standard area at all. As we expected, we didn't have a
competitive moat around the non-standard stuff and we tend to lose business in the more, the
more mass market area and I think that's pretty much what's happened over the last year.
Adam, you are going to talk about the COR target.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah, certainly. So if you think back to the end of 2019, we came into 2020. Writing towards the top
end of our combined operating ratio range in a relatively soft market. And as Geoff said that that's
where we will place (inaudible) ratio talking to that point. We have increased prices over the year,
with the goal that we can meet the inflationary costs that apply to that, we haven't necessarily
stepped back down the combined ratio range. Overall notwithstanding some of the benefits that
comes through from claims frequency from COVID for example. So -- and of course what we have
done to various points during the year is make sure we've discounted in what we expect the claims
frequency benefits might be. So on that basis, we wouldn't necessarily expect a significantly better
combined ratio than one which you might have in a normal year, but nor do we expect our
combined ratio to be at the top of the 70% to 80% range, as it might have been where we not to
be in the situation that we currently are.



A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Adam. James, do you want to say anything on reserve releases?

FINAL

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, I think as Adam has been saying for quite some time. We have been expecting
exceptional releases to come towards an end at some point, they can't carry on indefinitely. I think
it's very -- I think if I had the exact answer of how big the releases are going to be going forward,
that's probably would've been a job, but the I think it's fair to say that we said that reserve
releases would start to reduce, that may have reduced slightly more than expectation, but not
outside of the realms of acceptability in terms of the how volatile they can be.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Nick Johnson.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Nick I think you're there?

Q - Nicholas Harcourt Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good morning all. Two questions. I think Firstly some of the peers are talking about increased price
sophistication. Just wondering how confident you are that the loss of competitiveness, you seen in
2020 is general pricing adjustments in the market or and not increased sophistication by some of
the peers? That's the first question.
And the second question on capital ratio. I think you said in the past that the capital requirement is
forward-looking. So just wondering what level of growth is baked into the capital comment that
you've got at the moment? Are you seeing a return to pre-COVID income in your capital comment
number or are you seeing some additional growth as well? Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

If I take the first one and then James you can chip in and Adam, second. I think on price
sophistication we are about standstill. I feel -- start to introduce Matt Wright, he is our Deputy Chief
Actuary, who with James spends really the majority of their time looking at how we can stay ahead
of the market on pricing sophistication. We test a lot of data on a regular basis, which has new
techniques. So I'm very happy that sophistication is not where it is and I think it's pretty mindset
because the difference where our mindset is profit first, volume second and that's how we set
ourselves up. So James, you -- say anything else on that.

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean I kind of echo Geoff's comments. I think that I mean if we -- what you guys don't see
in the background is us wearing away on these kind of R&D trying to find new things. So our data
scientists is forever trying to beat the current approach and we are implementing little things on
the side that you guys don't necessarily see and we don't necessarily chants about. Similarly is
related to the presentation. I mean, we just at last year we deployed our single biggest week,
deployed five to six factors, one of which was a single biggest rating factor change in terms of we



FINAL

think it's very exciting and it was the biggest rating factor we've implemented for probably four,
five years.
So I think there's no question in my mind that we continue to develop and challenge ourselves and
find new ways of differentiating risk and that can go away from the traditional approach to rating. I
think what we're seeing is as we have seen in previous cycles is quite a lot of the rationality in the
market and as we've tried to stay we've -- as in my slide show, we try not to look too far ahead
because otherwise we just be chasing the market down. We're basically emphasizing on the data
and the information we have at the time. And being influenced by things like what the government
telling us are going to happen rather than kind of, if last April we have taken upon and reduced our
rates significantly. Yes, we do written more volume up, but we wouldn't have known that, there was
no way of knowing it would have been upon, and that's not really the same way.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks James. And then Adam, you were taking about the capital and the growth --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah, I think we've been fairly open that we don't know exactly when the market will turn but we
expect it to turn at some point. I think the key thing here is we've still got a lot of capital headroom
and we would be very comfortable moving around within the range that we've currently got in
order to fund that and the capital strain generated through growth is, there is some but it's not as
substantial as it might be say our combined ratio was a lot higher. Because the business horizon is
profitable it sort of self-funding from that perspective. So we've (inaudible) ourselves enough
wiggle room that. We weren't necessarily need to constrain growth because of where we are in
the capital range. But I suppose the development of how our premium looks will depend a lot on
what happens throughout the rest of this year.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks Adam.

Q - Nicholas Harcourt Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Thanks very much.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you, Nick.

Operator
The next question is from Ivan Bokhmat.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Ivan, are you there? Yeah, here you are.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

The question is -- it's a couple actually. The first one would be on the expense ratio and on the
degree of fixed versus floating costs. Let me say your quoting volumes have been much lower, but
it didn't seem to brought a lot of -- a lot of benefit to the expense ratio. And secondly, it's just on
the capital efficiency. I've noticed that if we, look very simply and divide your premiums by your or
divide your SCR by your premium volumes, that capital intensity has increased quite a bit
throughout 2020. Could you maybe give us a bit of an outlook on how your capital generation
going forward should look like? I mean, is it going to be further increase in capital intensity or other
any one-off that you would quantify? Thanks.



A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks, Ivan. Not, give you time. Adam, I think you're taking those two straight away.

FINAL

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

No problem, Geoff. Thanks. Thanks for the question. Expense ratio, yes, we still have a pretty high
proportion of variable costs. If you look at the slide, I presented earlier it separates out the
commission element which is almost entirely variable. I think that was around 8.6% of the total
expense ratio. Beyond that, we do have staff costs, we do have property costs and other
overheads of running the business. It's a sort of back of the envelope calculation to get to how
much of that remaining product costs is for the variable.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think it's fair to say where we not in the situation we are where, a big proportion of our costs is
variable, our expense ratio might have looked somewhat worse with the level of premium decline
that we've seen over the past few years. So while we've seen the expense ratio tick-up by a few
percent. I think there has been relatively resilient given the fluctuations in volume and it's entirely
within the realms of what we would have expected. There have been some structural cost
increases due to being a listed company, which (inaudible) times would have been swallowed up
by premium increases which happen in the current situation.
On capital efficiency, It's really a question, we have seen an increase in our capital requirement
throughout 2020 largely that's been driven by the revisions to the investment portfolio. So bonds
coming in presenting spread risk and a slight increase in the term-risk on interest rates, all of which
have been designed to increase yield to an acceptable but still address relatively low level. But at
the same time not generating any actual increase in our view of what the downside risks might be
upholding those investments. So that is a genuine one-off I suppose that will move around a bit
depending whether we're in our outs of certain bonds, but generally we've taken the hit to our
capital to put in that new investment portfolio in place other than that we might have expected
capital requirements to shrink a little as we shrunk in size.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you. Ivan, anything else, or is that okay?

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Thanks. That's it.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you much. There's a question that's come through on the chat facility from Charlie Beeching
with KBW. One is about what do we expect to happen to claims frequency pre and post COVID?
Could there be an impact on customers driving more than previously as lockdown eases? I think
this is exactly the big question. What does the new normal look like? At the moment for one to
many better data. Whereas even the new normal looks like the old normal. Clearly, we'll be
tracking that very closely as we see how lockdown loosens. There are theories that people might
work from home one or two days a week that could have a decrease on frequency. There maybe
more driving at weekends. There could be driver at different times of day. What James and Matt
will be doing is tracking that data very closely and adjusting our pricing as we see reasons to move.
The second question here is the market impact. Do we expect any significant market consolidation
as much as deteriorate. I think we know that some insurers and some distributors are having a
tough time. We've seen some M&A already in the recent past. There may be some more to come.
I think it's interesting if you look at the public companies like (inaudible) who presented very strong,
very good companies, there are other companies out there who are not so well capitalized and
maybe don't have the same sophistication. So I think it's wrong to judge the market just perhaps
on add more direct line and that's probably non-standard approach to life so there could be
impacts that come to --



Operator
Next question, Geoff, is from Ben Cohen.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

FINAL

Ben, hi. You're coming through --

Q - Benjamin Cohen

{BIO 18668171 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, there. Can you hear me?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

We can.

Q - Benjamin Cohen

{BIO 18668171 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, good. I just wanted to go back to slide 12, please on the sort of the quote ability that you
have. I just wondered to the extent that the sort of the further deterioration started this year
implies that the market is even more competitive than it was through last year whether there's a
sort of a year-on-year effect. And I suppose just more generally then, ass you start the year how
much are your premiums actually down. I think there are some later slides that imply that the
premiums are also down year-over-year and it is this simply capturing the lockdown impact? Thank
you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah sure. So net income we really happy to talk about the start of this year. In the full RNS, we've
spoken about that we've had to run hard to maintain about 20% drop year-on-year. An important
clarification is that's against a non COVID period. So the COVID impacts didn't really start to kick in
until just around now last year. So we're comparing COVID period this year with a non-COVID
period last year's. We're not really in the normal comparison period there. I think there is a risk of a
really intense bit of almost a blood bath has been kicked off by people chosen volume. So some
people have tried to hold out as they've lost more and more volume, I think other people are now
having to try and compete to get some of that volume back. So their own portfolios don't shrunk
too fast. We're in some ways might benefit from that. If some of the larger brokers need to
maintain their own portfolios sizes when what I can see there being an intense period of
competition through the very early part of this year as people start to play their price positions as
COVID discounts on the need to try and maintain their portfolio size.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

I think -- Geoff. I think it's a really good point Ben that if there are certain segments of the market
where we're not seeing newcomers, for example, when you pick people driving tests are taking
place. So we're not seeing new drivers to the market as just one example, that means that the pot
is smaller and therefore, if even just a small part of the market is down, everyone chases the rest
of it much harder and that's something that from our discipline pricing approach, we've not been
prepared to do. So whilst in the short-term we stick to our knitting and the volume is lower, in the
longer, I mean, it's not sustainable to continually chase volume at the cost of profit.

Q - Benjamin Cohen

{BIO 18668171 <GO>}

Sorry. Can I ask us as a follow-up, Geoff, you mentioned that there would be competition to sort of
position ahead of the FCA changes coming in. Could you explain that in the context of if company
is sort of lock in on profitable business then is it not sort of unprofitable but forever. So how
realistic is that as a scenario would you say?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}



FINAL

Yeah, I think the way I've tried to rationalize this in my own mind if you believe that market prices,
I'll make these numbers up slightly, are going to increase by 10% when the FCA price view comes
in, if you can buy a policy this year and you have a lifetime value model of things, you can hold it
into future years that may be cheaper than buying back their price comparison website next year. I
think also some competitors have a profit model that's very dependent on non-underwriting profit.
So for example claims income, so if you go into next year, to small, you only need -- they had to
buy back the policies, you haven't got the claims income coming through at the same time. So I can
understand the strategy. Something that executed well, I think someone. For us, it's irrelevant
because that's not how we earn out. So we will stay disciplined as that potential turmoil goes on
and as I think someone mentioned in the presentation last week, there will be some jockeying
preposition as people work out where the appropriate new business and we know the price points
are.

Q - Benjamin Cohen

{BIO 18668171 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Thanks guys.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
I still have a couple of hands raised. Next up is Tom Bateman.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Tom, hi.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Hi, good morning guys. Few questions for me. A couple on top-line. It's always come back to this
topic. But yeah, I look back at last year's mostly comes down about (inaudible) how much can you
catch up in 2021 as new drivers come back on, there is new car sales pick up. What's a -- how much
of that can you realistically makeup? And I guess following on from that you talked about maybe
you haven't lost opportunity in the non-standard rich part of market, but who are your competitors
here? Who are writing these risks when you aren't essentially?
I'm going to slide it along here on that topic as well. But just on electric vehicles, obviously, new car
sales are a part of your book given the increasing penetration of electric vehicles. How prepared
are you to write more of that business? And just one final question on the SCR investment yield
again, SCR is increasing because the market risk essentially. How do you look at the payoff
between additional yield -- in the portfolio and the capital requirement there? Any numbers sort of
would be helpful. Thank you.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

First one, I think maybe it's worth you're going back to 2015 actually, which was the last sort of
really hard part the market and who has been to the year I joined. I am joining and we couldn't
quite fast enough to maintain the volume to, keep the volumes down at a level where we felt we
could cope with the operation. So it's again what the growth was in that year. I think 20

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

I mean we would have had something like twinked up. We would have put in the region of 20
points on, I recall in March 16, we put over six points in a single month, so we felt that the growth
was so much that we'd rather take the volume so that operationally -- guys could handle the claims
volumes with the quality that they and the attention that they need, because we didn't want to
compromise that kind of our ability to settle claims and I think it's important point that someone



FINAL

might be like say taking the business, but are they handling the claims in the same way that would - I would challenge that as well. So if that business might well come back to us as things turn out.
I think Tom, I think that as we unquote, but I think -- making this up very slightly around half a million
(inaudible) a week and we quote for all of them and we'll take any of them that generate our
required margin. So there's no shortage of opportunity for us to write business in the market at all
when the price points hit the right level. I think your next question was around electric vehicles.
We're very happy about our electric vehicles. We write them at the moment. The claims are more
complicated. Parts can be more expensive, but we're very happy with electric vehicles we do them
at exactly the same margin than any other vehicle type that we write. I think you asked who's
writing the risks. I think of course, it just goes after combination of other insurers. We don't really
feel like we've lost lot of the non-standard business. Some of it's not been there.
So I'm personally very grateful to Kent Police for making for just (inaudible) letter from speeding
mishap rather than making music through a speed awareness course. So I think you haven't had
convictions coming on driving licenses. You haven't had new drivers. There's been less (inaudible)
all the things that drive you back into the market as a Non-standard risk just haven't happened. So I
don't think we've really lost anything in the non-standard area that I can see. And the last question
was around SCR and a sort of payoffs that we think about?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. Yeah, I mean it -- I'm going to give you a fairly loose answer now but by all means we
can dig into a little offline. In very broad strokes. We have taken capital -- because of the
investment portfolio. We're now in their will be a payback period on that capital the payback period
will be longer in the current circumstances than it might have been if bond yields overall were
higher nonetheless, I guess spreads a factory into that as well.
I suppose because we've got a fairly open range of the capital in which we can operate. We're
effectively just moved down in the capital range at no loss for the dividend available to
shareholders if we were still a staunch at 140% mark then maybe we would be easing up on capital
that would otherwise (inaudible) that there's a dividend so I could only question for us more as a
team is whether after revised level of capital. After we've taken that hit with still comfortable that
we've got enough and we are. That's it. We keep it under review. So, if we're not getting good
value if we think the capital reviews done in moving into the investment portfolio that we've got,
we will roll it back at the relatively little expense so it -- yeah, I'm not going to go into more of the
math at this stage. But by all means I think we should keep it as a rolling dialogue with market.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks Tom.

Operator
Our next question is from Robert Murphy.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Good morning Robert.

Q - Robert Murphy

{BIO 16621510 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi guys. Just going back to the one-off prior year reserving increase that you mentioned. Can
you actually quantify what that was. I mean you sort of implying a couple of points? And also is that



mainly related to one year sort of like 2019 probably looks like one of the worst developing years
historically I don't know --

FINAL

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

If you look at the headlines out you can put in the base on, if that's okay? So we really there's a few
moving parts here. The first one is the care home cost increase which was -- as published on a
periodic basis. Last one came out in November which is the (inaudible) index. I think it was talking
about -- to 5.9% increase in care worker wages. That's impacted across all largest claims. PPO
capitalization funding is sort of a thing that's particularly related to that in how we can have, how
their insurance, capital ratios, capitalized some of those payments and I guess just James
reflecting all that data through as its come to light, do you have sort of further new more detail
around that?

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Well. Yeah. I think I think you've kind of covered it off Geoff. I think we did see in the second half it
probably would comment on the relevance of COVID-19 in that sense. But we certainly have seen
an increase in the expected in the cost of care by (inaudible) index, not only impacts all of the
triangles on a net basis because it impacts on the larger losses. It also impacts as just said the view
on APIs and potential capitalization claims. So that's essentially it I think Geoff summarize it quite
nicely.

Q - Robert Murphy

{BIO 16621510 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks and just a quick follow-up on the bond portfolio as well as it's not just credit risk you've
increased also duration risk on that?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Adam.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

I'll tell that one Geoff. There's a slight uptick in duration risk, although we're still pretty well
matched against our insurance liabilities but it's largely spread.

Q - Robert Murphy

{BIO 16621510 <GO>}

Thanks so much.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
So second last question is from Faizan Lakhani.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Hi Faizan. Can you hear us? Hi, Goos morning. Hi ,your question there Faizan.

Operator
Faizan, if you just want to unmute yourself ?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

So Faizan got here -- Han could you move to the next question, so we can come back.



Operator
Sure. The next question will be Alex Evans.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

FINAL

Alex Evans? Okay (inaudible) said as well.

Operator
Sorry, Alex. You should come through now?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Hi Alex (inaudible) Can you unmute yourself ?

Q - Alex Evans

{BIO 20706796 <GO>}

Can you hear me?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

We got. Loud and clear.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Alex Evans

{BIO 20706796 <GO>}

Perfect. And so thanks guys. So the first one is just on the rationality of the motor market that
you're talking about, it seems to be the case that this year, at the start of this year at least that's
continuing. I just wonder what's the catalyst for these insurers rationalizing some of the frequency
benefits. Is it the road traffic going back to normal levels or do you think the lower quote volume
and more aggressiveness of some insurers means that that's going to be beyond that? And then
just secondly as well maybe just on the FCA review. It seems like quite a significant data request to
the insurers and appreciate it won't affect you in the same way as others. But how long do you
envisage it to take to implement the infrastructure and everything in place and looking at the time
liner?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Sure. I mean in terms of irrationality of motor, I think I've worked and I've been looking at motor
insurance for 30 years and it's been pretty much consistently (inaudible) all that time, I would say at
some point. There's normally someone doing something irrational. I guess at the moment is
probably being driven by a need to maintain top line. So we do have a reasonably flexible and
variable cost base. So we are -- our mindset is absolutely focused on profit. I think a lot of insurers
have a trade-off tight between and understand will try to put you in top line and profit. We don't do
that. We were only focused on the bottom line. So I think probably the drivers want to do with that
and with the FCA being such a radical change I do understand why some issuers might want to
maintain portfolio size going into that the area. On the FCA data request, I've seen some amazing
quote on how much it's going to cost to make this change. I'm pretty sure -- the data requests and
a couple of those last time, we have all the data at hand. So we see my I think no real cost to effort
in complying with that.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

We think should relatively straightforward. So that you don't --

Q - Alex Evans

{BIO 20706796 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you very much.



Operator
So, let's see if we can get Faizan back for question.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, can hear me now?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

We can. Loud and clear. No issues. No problem.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

I just wanted to kick the tires on the pricing thesis. I mean if I may just take the opposite view for a
second. It appears the markets of over and last year the COVID frequency benefits. Some of your
peers have posted lower reserve releases than last year which may suggest that you had a
marketing quite cautious. Now once that unwind , there may be a bit of gunpowder to kind of help
any sort of weaker current year margins and even at with that reform is probably said to be slightly
lower benefit. There are sort of two, three sort of I'd say big things pushing against harder or from
a pricing market we know what you're sort of view on that?

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly in terms of claims inflation, your guidance has stayed pretty steady. Just want to
compare it to you. One of your large peers Direct Line where they seems to operating at 5% to
6% claims inflation is that mainly due to business mix or is there an element of different views in
terms of the drivers of the market or you'll get abilities? Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah sure and I guess on the pricing thesis it wouldn't be a market. If everyone had the same view
at all the times. I suppose our view is and we've tried to outline this in some of the slides it -- when
you're writing the policy you could look at claims experience within next 12 months not the current
month you are writing that policy in I think that you are P&L could look quite good for the first
1quarter. Our concern is what were the claims cost look like for that policy across the life. James,
would you like to add anything to that?

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

I think it's a good question and fair challenge I think what we saw, what we said last year was, as
you look at presentation slides, if you look at our volumes over time and you overlay that with the
traffic volumes, it would appear that there is a significant correlation between our relative
competitiveness and the traffic volumes. And as we've said that doesn't perfectly correlate to
pricing and we have seen that last year. I think we went from being something like the month. April
was 40% down year-on-year. And the month of June was 10% up year-on-year now, we took a
strategic view on what we thought the pricing should be. And how -- when with that view. The
traffic changed reasonably significantly and we saw that reasonably significant change in volume.
That would imply that there is a lot of irrational top-line driven irrational pricing in the market I
would suggest and the fact that we have not been what's the word learning to chasing that I think
sets us out as a differentiator and make no mistake as Geoff said that if we write a policy today, we
have to take a view on what the what the claims, what exposure and what therefore the claims
experience is going to be like, not just for not just for the month of March and April. It's going to be
for the next 12 months and you really have to be confident if you've got a crystal ball with the
future and then great, but if you haven't you got to take a sensible approach and I would argue
that is feeding potential a rational pricing along with the fact that currently the P&L is a probably
looking quite healthy. But I guess what I'm saying is once that was that business that you write
today. If you've missed priced it when it starts to learn through, it really starts to buy it and we
haven't been subjected to that because of our philosophy and our approach.



Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

The overview on which players have been overly aggressive or irrational. I mean you've seen, I do
for example write a lot of business, but they seem too comfortable with it and deal with you in
terms of where the pressure will come.

FINAL

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

I don't think it's for us to comment on competitors on this stuff. I think it's important and we've
mentioned a few times. It's important not to base a market if you want to add more direct line and
us I think that's probably what we're tiny but I think had more than a third of the market. That's a lot
of the market who don't report numbers publicly. So I think you shouldn't assume we're told say
competitors we're not talking about just thought like that (inaudible) any stretch of the imagination.
I think an important point to make here is that if we have been too cautious. So if our assumptions
are right, others have to catch up is our view. If we've been overly cautious and we're wrong.
They're not arrogant enough to say we're right that means we've overfunded against that
expectation and that because of the ability to reduce prices to get growth. So our assumption,
scenario A is that we are right places need to catch up. Scenario B is we'll be over improvement
which case we can reduce prices if we've over a same traffic.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think to add to that Geoff the balancing, the balancing item would be in the simplest terms if
our margins 20% and we get and we decide we want that margin to be 19% a year. We get 5% of
it away. We need to write at least 5% more business and we do see at certain point price points.
We do see a greater level of elasticity and that's really where we're balancing
What we expect to happen going forward and the actual elasticity still in the market and making
sure that we are kind of we are optimizing the absolute profit for our shareholders.

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yeah, I think your second question Faizan down to claims inflation. So we are talking around 7 to 8. I
think others have talked -- spoken already been somewhat over 5. The main difference could be
around theft. I think it's fair to say forgot. We are prepared to write cars that are more prone to
debt within that could have a slight uptick on our claims inflation compared to others. But probably
in the region of a point also.
Geoff do you want to --

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah possibly and of course we look at inflation across a long period we're not just looking at it on
a 12 month basis and I suspect that if you ask a bunch of claims directors or a bunch of actors, you'll
come up with different views in terms of actually how they measure inflation, but it seems to us
quite clear that this isn't a bottle that you can keep the cork in forever.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you very much.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
It doesn't seem like we've got any further questions. So no more raised hands, or open questions.



A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Okay, if anyone does have anything we are certainly here in happy to take any other questions. If
not, thank you very much for your time today, very much appreciated. Hopefully, we've unpacked
the result and our views on the future, and I know some of how to run off to another presentation.
So, how could we give me a chance to do that? Thanks so much for your time.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

