Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

Capital Markets Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrea Novelli, Head of PosteVita
Camillo Greco, CFO
Guido Maria Nola, Head of BancoPosta
Marco Siracusano, Head of PMD Business Unit
Massimiliano R. Riggi, Head of IR
Massimo Rosini, Head of the Mail Communications & Logistics Department
Matteo Del Fante, CEO, GM & Director
Satya Nadella, CEO & Director
Unidentiﬁed Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Azzurra Guelﬁ, Analyst
Elena Perini, Analyst
Gian Luca Ferrari, Analyst
Manuela Meroni, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentiﬁed Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Poste Italiane Capital Markets Day.
I am Massimiliano Riggi, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you for joining us.
Today we will present our new strategic plan, 2024 Sustain & Innovate.
On screen, you can see our agenda for the day.
In a few moments, you will hear from Matteo Del Fante, who will provide an overview of
the new four-year plan. Then Massimo Rosini will focus on the ongoing transformation of
our core logistics businesses -- followed by Guido Nola and then Andrea Novelli, who will
discuss the key developments related to our ﬁnancial and insurance activities. Marco
Siracusano will present the strategy of our payments and mobile business. Finally, the
CFO, Camillo Greco, will do a deep dive in our ﬁnancials.

Page 1 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

After the concluding remarks from our CEO, we will be happy to answer your questions
during the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)

FINAL

For any topics not covered, feel free to contact me and my team, we will get back to you
as soon as possible.
Before we start, I must ask you to read the disclaimer on the screen. A copy is also
included in the presentation pack you can ﬁnd on our Web site. So let's get started.
Thank you.
Matteo, over to you.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us on our Virtual Capital
Markets Day. We're very pleased to present today our four-year strategic plan, 2024
Sustain & Innovate.

Bloomberg Transcript

Today you will hear from our business segments, and I'm sure that by the end of today's
presentation, you will have a clear picture of how Poste Italiane is uniquely positioned to
capture growth and create a sustainable long-term value for its shareholders and
communities in the coming years.
Let's get started with a video highlighting our operational resilience during 2020, please.
(Presentation)
In 2018, we started our transformation journey, building on our historical competitive
advantages to address areas of growth with a clear strategy. Today Poste Italiane
consolidated the position of strength, conﬁrming its role of strategic pillar for the country.
Our vision today is simple; to maximize the value of our powerful omnichannel network,
leveraging on trust and interaction with our clients.
We emerged stronger from COVID-19 emergency when we took timely and decisive
actions to safeguard our customers, support our communities and protect our employees.
Unfortunately, we nevertheless lost more than 30 colleagues to COVID in the last 12
months and a special thought goes from all of us to them and to the families.
During the pandemic, we have always ensured continued service to our communities with
the highest safety standards. At least one post oﬃce was open in every small municipality,
even during the ﬁrst toughest lockdown period last year. We're now playing a key role in
the distribution of the COVID vaccine, as I will comment shortly.

Page 2 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

We accelerated the deployment of digital and contactless services to promptly address
evolving customer needs, taking a central stage in the digitalization of the country.
Throughout these diﬃcult times, we enhanced signiﬁcantly our reputation among our
people, customers and stakeholders. We believe that these are the key assets for the
sustainable growth of our business.
Let's now take a look at our main achievements on Deliver22 on slide four. We indeed
deliver what we promised, every single year, over the course of the last three years, we
overachieved net proﬁt targets set in February 2018. In 2020, net proﬁts reached EUR 1.2
billion, exceeding the target of EUR 1.1 billion. We distributed over EUR 1.8 billion to
shareholders, conﬁrming our dividend policy even in 2020.
Moving to slide ﬁve. You can appreciate our Deliver22 segment achievements. In the last
three years, we successfully transformed Mail & Parcels, shifting it from a pure mail, which
faces a secular decline, to a parcel-driven business becoming market leader in B2C.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Financial & Insurance, we built a comprehensive open platform for savings, insurance
and investment products to meet all client needs, which we now understand better,
thanks to a wider-spread proﬁling of all our clients. With more than 8,000 ﬁnancial
advisers and 30,000 tellers, we serve all our clients, we increasingly targeted the ﬁnancial
insurance and payment products.
On payment and mobile, since Postepay foundation in Q4 2018, our vision proved
successful, aﬃrming Poste as the key player in the Italian payment market, also by oﬀering
a unique platform, integrating payments and telcos. Over the last three years, we have
constantly renewed our oﬀer, introducing innovative services and products, which have
further consolidated our brand. We continue to look ahead with new value-added
services. Utilities will be the next in the pipeline, as Marco will show you in his
presentation later.
Moving to slide six. In the last three years, we focused on delivering positive impact to all
our stakeholders. We dropped change and achieved results across all our businesses. It
has been our duty and honor to serve Italians during the pandemic.
We are proud of the important role that we're playing in the country-wide vaccination
plan, with around 2 million vaccines doses already delivered in support of the Italian army
operations. Thanks to our agile and cloud-based IT, we created a state-of-the-art tech
platform to deliver and track, thus seeing doses along the logistics chain, oﬀering a
multichannel booking system in six key regions in Italy, reaching, today around 35% of the
Italian population.
In the crisis, we also delivered over 1.5 billion PPEs. Paid pension and guaranteed
continued services across the country with at least one post oﬃce open in each small
municipality at the peak of the emergency.
Employee safety remains our top priority. That's why we enable over 85% of our staﬀ to
smart work and provided over 200,000 COVID tests to employees.
Page 3 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

We're also committed to ﬁghting climate change. Over the last three years, we kept our
renewable energy consumption level at 95% and we reduced carbon emission by 15% in
2019.
Moving to slide eight. With 35 million customers, we have, by far, the largest client base in
the country with 11 million daily interactions, 4.7 million of which via digital channels. We
earned the loyalty of our customers through our commitment to quality and social
responsibility in all our businesses.
Italian trust us with their savings, rely on our insurance products, use our cards and phone
and, of course come to us to deliver their Mail & Parcels. We have 27 million postal saving
clients, and retail net inﬂows reached a record of more than EUR 15 billion in 2020. Insure
investment product lapse rate is only 2.5% versus a market average of 5.5%. Even in the
very competitive telco market, our clients bear with us. In a standard year, our churn rate
is indeed 13% compared to an industry average of around 20%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to slide nine. Poste is an important engine of innovation and digitalization of Italy,
connecting the country in a new hybrid world. In fact, in more than 115 years, our Postene
[ph], and our Postini and our post oﬃces have been the main physical connections in the
country. Now we aim to become the single point of entry for all Italian daily needs. Along
this path, we're the only company able to link Italian SMEs, public administrations and
citizens. We further strengthened our partnership with Microsoft to provide innovative and
digital services to Italian companies and public administration, supporting and facilitating
SMEs growth in Italy. We play a primary role in transforming the e-commerce landscape.
In 2020, 37% of overall B2C deliveries went through our network, with 210 million parcel
delivered and almost 400 million e-commerce transactions via our payment tools. We
also committed to reinforce the relationship between individuals and public
administration with over 15 million public digital identities, speed, with a national market
share of above 80%.
Let's move to slide 10. To deliver responsible growth, and drive Italy sustainability and
social integrity, our strategy follow eight pillars, aligned with the UN SDGs. Our business
is built on governance, risk management and resilience. Along these lines, we foster
integrity and transparency, and we're committed to a code of ethics to manage our
investment and business in a responsible and sustainable way. We consider this feature as
an essential enabler to create positive impact to our customers, communities and
stakeholders.
We invest in our people to build an inclusive workplace where everyone can prosper.
Since 2018, we have, in fact, oﬀered over 5.9 million training hours to our employees, 92%
of which were done remotely. To conﬁrm our strong commitment to people, we're aiming
to the equal salary certiﬁcation by 2022, led by our customer and society ﬁrst philosophy,
will support ﬁnancial and digital education for all communities.
On slide 12 -- 11, sorry. In the past three years, we have adopted sustainability policy
guidelines. We published our ﬁrst integrated report in 2018, and we're now in the top
Page 4 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

sustainability indices. We can now deﬁne a clear road map towards carbon neutrality. We
have adopted the science-based target methodology to set carbon emission reduction
targets across the entire value chain, consistent with keeping global warming to 1.5
degrees above the preindustrial levels.
As a result, we're committing to reducing carbon emission by 30% by 2025 across the
three streams of logistics, real estate and investment. By 2025, we intend to introduce
more than 27,000 green vehicles, reducing by 40% emissions from our Postini and Postini
ﬂeet; reduced real estate CO2 emissions and optimize the footprint of our investment
portfolios. Finally, we are committing to direct emission reduction, indirect emission
containment and purchase of carbon credits on the market, so that we aim to transform
Poste Italiane as a certiﬁed net-zero-emission company in 2030.
On slide 13, we come to the core of our plan with the rollout of the group strategy for the
coming years. In Mail & Parcels, the evolution of our logistic network throughout the
entire value chain will capture the full potential coming from the growing parcel market.
We started our journey back in 2016, with more than 80% of segment revenues coming
from the declining mail business. Over the plan, we're targeting more than 50% of
logistics revenues to come from parcel. The shift in business mix is happening very fast.

Bloomberg Transcript

In this market, we will continue to leverage on our B2C leadership. We will put new focus
on growing C2X and B2B, where we will work on developing a unique and integrated
value proposition and create a proﬁtable business in the logistics space in Italy for the
long run for Poste Italiane.
As Italy most trusted ﬁnancial institution, we will leverage on our omnichannel platform
and our skilled people to do more and better. Our focus on client segmentation will allow
us to attract signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assets and promote a more diversiﬁed asset allocation.
We're integrating insurance products inside our wealth management services in order to
become a one-stop shop for all customer ﬁnancial and protection needs. Our insurance is
now fully ﬂedged with life business conﬁrming its key role within the group wealth
management strategy. We will continue to deliver proﬁtable and sustainable growth in
P&C, contributing to the reduction of under-insurance in Italy.
Our payment and mobile business is a real digital market disruptor, uniquely combining
payment, telco and soon to be launched energy oﬀers. Payments remain at the core.
Starting from this, we intend to engage with customers on other more value-added
services. We will continue to consolidate our leadership in digital payments, acting as a
market facilitator and connecting customer, SMEs and public administration. In 2022, we
will launch a new entirely green gas and power oﬀers, promoting market liberalization
and providing sales market access to customers.
Moving to slide 14. Our strategy allows us to capture business trends and deliver growth
across all our segments. As we intend to aﬃrm our role as an omnichannel platform
serving evolving customer needs, adapting to a changing world and customer habits. In
fact, when comparing to the other developed markets in Europe, we still have a huge
potential in our key business areas.

Page 5 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

Starting from Italy B2C e-commerce penetration, which is well below U average. The
pandemic has accelerated B2C parcel growth, conﬁrming our strategy to push on a
parcel-based network model.

FINAL

Customer digital behavior has strongly accelerated, especially in Italy, where we expect
digital transaction to converge towards the U average. Postepay bundled payment telco
oﬀers will address these trends.
In the ﬁnancial segment, as Guido will shortly show in more detail, the low interest rate
environment has increased liquidity on current accounts, and we intend to leverage on
low penetration of managed products in Italy. Our enhanced service model is well
equipped to attract wealth and assist our customer in diversifying their portfolio, thanks to
our life insurance products. P&C penetration in Italy is indeed well below European
average, and this represents a clear opportunity for the plan.
Moving to slide 15. We look at some impressive ﬁgures on our footprint, in particular, 94%
of the Italian population lives within ﬁve minutes from a post oﬃce or (Speaking via
interpreter) touch point. Almost 5 million average daily visits with 39% of our clients,
making at least one access on one of our digital properties last year. We target this
number to reach 50% in 2024.

Bloomberg Transcript

On slide 16, let's focus on our new channels, enabled by our digital properties and thirdparty networks. Starting on the left-hand side of the slide. Out of 11 million daily
interactions today around 50% come from our new channels. This represents a great
potential to generate value from our customer base going forward.
Moving to the middle graph, we represent the share of transactions. such as Postepay or
SIM card top-ups, currently managed on our new channels. We're targeting a share of
40% by 2024. This will allow our physical network of 30,000 tellers to focus on new
higher-value products such as model insurance and energy oﬀers.
Moving to the graph on the right-hand side of the slide, 12% of 2020 relevant revenues
are generated by new channel, increasing by 4% points year-on-year and we target to
reach a share of more than 20% by 2024. Please note, this is not a diﬀerent way of doing
the same business. This is a mindset innovation, which is allowing Poste to build the best
business platform.
Let's move to slide 17. As learned from past experience, constant updates and investments
in technology are essential to respond to emerging trends and promptly review our
business and operational model. We have built a powerful technology engine based on
hybrid cloud, open APIs and exponential technologies applied to all our business and
infrastructure. Today we can indeed claim to be a data-driven and cloud-based company,
also thanks to over EUR 300 million accumulated cloud investments, making Poste today
the ﬁrst user of cloud services for Italian operations.
In the plan, the share of investment related to transformation and innovation will grow
from 30% to 64% of total investments. Our technology platform already enables ﬂexible
Page 6 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

process operation and innovative customer services supported by a layer of data
management. These features deﬁned Poste as the platform of choice across all
distribution channels as we are able to rapidly integrate external partner within our value
chain, connecting service providers to consumers in a seamless experience. Technology
and artiﬁcial intelligence enable a proactive customer service model with a diﬀerentiated
customer assistance.
For example, during 2020, 25% of total contact center interaction were successfully
handled by AI or chatbot, which is an important achievement in terms of customer
experience and internal process optimization.
On slide 18, our organization is the key driver for the execution of our strategic view and
plan. We have a perfect structure in place to successfully implement our plan today with
an experienced management team ensuring the deployment of a strategic view that they
have contributed to deﬁne in the ﬁrst place and which they are, therefore, fully committed
to. The centralized operational and technology brain will lead the execution of the plan
across all business units, which are enabled by distribution networks and dedicated
channels.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm very proud of my team. And after four years of hard work, our management team is in
the best position to execute the plan that we prepare and presented today with a 100% of
internal resources.
On slide 19, we see the evolution of our total ﬁnancial assets, which grew 12% since 2017 to
EUR 569 billion last year. We expect the sales to continue to grow steadily over the plan,
but a lower pace of 8%, also supported by a changing investment product mix. As Guido
will describe more in detail, our enhanced advisory model will allow us to improve
customer portfolio asset allocation with a more diversiﬁed product mix on an increasing
share of managed assets. We intend to achieve this goal, focusing on our multi-class
insurance oﬀer, which we believe is the best choice for our customers in the current
market environment.
On slide 20, you can see the evolution of our human capital. Over the last few years, we
have focused on developing our workforce to support ongoing business transformation.
As part of our strategy, we subsidized early retirements to achieve continuing
development and renewal of the workforce. As you can appreciate, indeed, the average
age of our employees marginally decreased in the last three years, and we expect it to
remain stable until 2024.
In order to implement our plan, it is fundamental to continue to invest in our people,
attracting qualiﬁed, talented women and men, as we remain committed to giving equal
opportunities to everybody, with diversity and inclusion embedded in our corporate
culture. As a result of our ambitious human capital strategy, we are targeting to renew
25% of our workforce compared to 2017, deeply changing the company culture.
On slide 21, we measure our commitment to business transformation. Strategic CapEx will
support the successful implementation of our business plan over the next four years. To
Page 7 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

drive change and innovation across all business, we intend to invest over EUR 3 billion
over the plan, keeping the ratio of capital expenditures over revenues broadly stable,
thanks to eﬃcient business management and conservative cost strategy. Camillo will go
more in detail later on this topic.
Let's move to slide 22, please. As just observed, conservative and eﬃcient cost
management is an essential element of our transformation strategy. Our approach to cost
is ﬂexible, ensuring those costs necessary to support growth. In order to structurally
improve business proﬁtability, we will keep focusing on the three key areas of HR, non-HR
and real estate-related expenditures.
On HR, we will continue to actively manage our FTE base, balancing retirements, new
hiring and temporary workers with the integration of the Nexi direct and indirect
resources. In-sourcing, rescaling and upscaling of employees will also be an essential
element to support our human capital strategy. As Camillo will show, we're also
optimizing variable costs related to growing telcos and parcel volumes to reduce cost per
unit. Finally, real estate rationalization can contribute to our cost management strategy,
and we also intend to invest in energy eﬃciency measures on our key headquarters.

Bloomberg Transcript

On slide 23, as I mentioned earlier, our commitment to sustainability and responsible
growth is a pillar of our business and of this plan. In order to be able to measure our
impact and monitor our progress, we have adopted smart ESG targets, which are speciﬁc,
measurable, attainable, relevant and time-based. On this slide, we summarize our targets
with which we will constantly monitor to ensure eﬀective implementation of the plan.
Moving to slide 25. We ﬁnd the proﬁtability trajectory over the next few years. We foresee
an EBIT growth of 5% on average over the plan, with net proﬁt lending at EUR 1.6 billion in
2024. Revenues will continue to grow steadily, reaching EUR 12.7 billion in 2024, with a
positive contribution from all segments. As a result, we intend to distribute over the plan,
dividends for over EUR 3 billion based on a growing and competitive dividend per share.
Starting from 2022, we commit to 6% annual growth rate of dividend, in line with the
increase of net proﬁt.
Let's move to slide 26 for more insights on our dividend policy. Our new plan will enable
us to continue delivering value to our shareholders with a dividend policy that is
sustainable and in line with group performance. As just said, over the plan, we target a 6%
yearly dividend increase, starting from EUR 0.55 for 2021, up by a solid 14% versus 2020.
The implied payout ratio is also sustainable, and we remain, therefore, committed to a
competitive dividend policy.
Thank you, now and over to Massimo, Head of our Logistics business. Thank you.

Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo. Good morning, everyone. Let me start with a video that shows the
main operational achievements of Mail, Parcel & Distribution.

Page 8 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

(Presentation)
The achievements we shared with you in the video are based on the transformation laid
down by Deliver22. In the last years, we have turned Mail & Parcel from a mail-centric
operator in terms of positioning, capabilities and service oﬀer into a parcel-focused
operator, market leader in B2C. Our reshaped network and successful market oﬀer led
mail and parcel and dist people to a deep cultural change. The turn of the follower into a
ﬁrst mover. This is the starting point for our next challenge.
Our goal is to make Mail & Parcel a fully ﬂedged logistic operator, supported by state-ofthe-art digital technology and ensuring the economic and environmental sustainability of
the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Three are the key drivers. First, the evolution of the logistics network, leveraging on the
successful implementation of the joint delivery model and the change of customers'
needs, we will further move towards a parcel-driven network. Second, leverage on the
B2C market leadership. We will consolidate the partnerships with top e-commerce
merchants and we'll widen even further the customer base, also through the upgrade of
our value-added services. Third, growth in the C2X and B2 billion markets. Our extensive
knowledge of the market allows us to oﬀer a unique integrated value proposition towards
C2X and B2 billion segments.
Let's now turn to slide four. Here, we have a clear view of market trends. The pandemic
has accelerated the secular trends of mail decrease and B2C growth. It's worth
mentioning how the mail market in 2019 was 2x the B2C market, while at the end of our
plan, we will have an opposite evidence. Therefore, we now forecast an annual decline of
7% on the mail market and an annual growth of 21% on the B2C parcel market. In short,
compared to a no-COVID projection in 2024, the mail market will be EUR 250 million
smaller, while the parcel market will be EUR 700 million larger. This conﬁrms our strategy
to push on a parcel-based network.
Now let's turn to slide six for a deep dive in the logistics network evolution. The ﬁrst
milestone on our logistics evolution agenda is Nexive's integration. Nexive is the second
mail operator in Italy with a signiﬁcant nationwide network. This industrial structure will be
integrated in our value chain and will generate running cost synergies of about EUR 100
million per year, mostly realized by 2022. By combining the commercial oﬀer of Poste and
Nexive, we will be able to activate the following cost synergies.
On indirect and operated costs, we will adopt a zero-based cost approach. Merging
transportation and sorting into Poste's network, we will gain strong synergies in terms of
COGS and facilities. Last, but not least, we will realize synergies on delivery based on the
application of the joint delivery model to Nexive's partner-based last mile network.
Now moving forward, I want to take you through other technical initiatives related to the
logistics network. We have an action plan for each stage of our logistics chain.

Page 9 of 49



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

Let's turn to slide seven. Let me now deep dive into the action plan related to the sorting
network. Within the logistics chain, sorting is the brain to address each shipment into the
right last mile network. A solid, ﬂexible and eﬃcient sorting network is the key to face the
challenges deriving from the parcel increase and the mail drop. In line with the previous
planned synergies, we will implement three kinds of actions; investments in heavy and
light automation, economies of scale through network downsizing and day-by-day waste
hunting through the implementation of a speciﬁc lean program that we call world-class
mail and parcel.
On the investment side, we will, ﬁrst, complete our fully automated parcel hubs program.
After Bologna and Roma, in the coming days, we will launch Milano and another hub will
become operational over the plan. In this way by 2024, we will have doubled the sorting
capacity versus 2019. Second, we will continue to reduce and replace legacy sorting
machines with new mixed mail technologies. To support this transformation, we will
continue to push our lean approach across the whole network. Our target is to implement
this methodology in all our Mail & Parcel sorting centers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to slide eight. On the transportation part of the logistics network, we will continue
the integration between Mail & Parcel with cost eﬃciency in mind. As you know, we have
an air network and a ground network. In air network, we will continue to balance air
connections with parcel destinations and to increase the payload through larger
airplanes. As for eﬃciency, a new maintenance program and the reengineered spare
parts management, combined with the payload increase, will enable a reduction of direct
cost per cubic meter of 15% on each connection.
On ground transportation, we will exploit sender's digital capabilities in road planning,
truck saturation and empty round trips reduction. With sender, we will generate an overall
10% saving in terms of cost per unit loaded, also thanks to the extension of its customer
base.
Now let's move forward to delivery on slide nine. We will continue to leverage on the joint
delivery model to deliver mail and small parcels in an integrated way to eﬃciently saturate
our Postene [ph] and Postini bag and to exploit our arrived network. At the same time, the
update of the delivery network work cycle will create further eﬃciency based on the
following operational innovation. Contactless delivery for parcels, route planning
according to daily shipments, productivity increase driven by higher coincidence enabled
by our PuntoPoste network.
In line with our continuous improvement mindset, we will deploy our lean approach also
on delivery. Moreover, we will renew our ﬂeet to make it green and designed for parcel.
Moving to slide 10. In the coming years, we will continue to introduce electric and hybrid
vehicles. At the same time, we will invest in setting up a dedicated charging infrastructure,
reaching 6,000 points in 2024. This is a signiﬁcant target, considering that we currently
have 2,000 charging points comparing with the total 13,000 public points existing in Italy.
Of course this action will contribute to support our ambitious CO2 reduction plan, which
targets a 40% emissions cut on our ﬂeet by 2024. This year, we will activate the ﬁrst two

Page 10 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

cities with a zero-emission Postini ﬂeet and by 2024, we will expand to 35 main city
centers and 800 small municipalities.

FINAL

Turning to slide 11. Here, we summarize how our logistic network will look like. We are
working to have one integrating sorting network to address Mail & Parcels into the right
delivery network.
One single transportation network connecting the sorting phase with last mile by ground
and air. And four specialized delivery networks described on the right side of the slide.
The postal network focused on delivering small parcels and mail with the joint delivery
model. The new ﬂexible partner network delivering registered mail and small-, mediumsized parcels with joint delivery approach. The express courier network increasingly
focused on big-sized parcels and specialized in warehouse management, B2 billion
logistics and customized delivery services. Finally, the value-added services delivery
network to oﬀer same-day scheduled and distant delivery. The evolution of our operating
model, combined with all the eﬃciency projects described and the implementation of our
lean approach are the right ways to face future challenges.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to the second pillar of our strategy on slide 13. We will double B2C revenues
from key merchants, thanks to our unique value proposition. The recently renewed
partnership with Amazon is based on our solid service level and the rail network
coverage. We perfectly match Zalando's needs for returns, where we owned 100% share
of wallet, thanks to our widespread and diversiﬁed network of alternative delivery points.
With such a network, we are best positioned to serve the whole fashion segment.
The provision of a wide range of best cost-eﬀective services is the winning factor with
main Chinese marketplaces. The success of our oﬀering to Chinese merchants, and so our
market penetration will be further enhanced by our direct local commercial presence.
On this topic, let's move to slide 14. Sengi is the main Chinese logistics provider for Italy.
Our acquisition of a controlling stake signed on the 1st of March this year will enhance
cross-border parcel logistic ﬂows supported by advanced end-to-end tracking. Shorter
transit times and continuous improvement of customer experience, we steadily boost
inbound volumes from China. For Poste, this is the ﬁrst historic opening to international
markets, allowing the scale-up on the value chain to increase proﬁtability.
Let's move to slide 15. We conﬁrm our leadership in B2C over the plan with a wider
merchants customer base and the proposition of value-added services for the shoppers
with a higher proﬁtability. This will happen through a further customization of the delivery
time windows in scheduled delivery. The introduction of instant delivery models,
deliveries within 90 minutes to meet growing demand for local-to-local services. For
example, a few weeks ago, we launched the instant delivery service on pharma products
already available in 42 cities and expected to grow rapidly.
The further growth of PuntoPoste network, reaching 21,000 parcel-enabled points out of a
total 37,000, this is by far the largest network of alternative delivery points in Italy. Liquors,
tobacco, supermarket, gas stations, an assorting network to satisfy diﬀerent customer
Page 11 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

needs and to maximize proximity. 80% of the Italian population will have a delivery point
within 1 kilometer, with an excellent user experience.

FINAL

All this will lead us, ﬁrst, to broaden and diversify even further the customer base,
reaching a higher diversiﬁcation than the market itself. Second, to double 2024 revenues
compared to 2019. Third, to gain further market share from 35% in 2019 to 38% in 2024.
Let's move to the third pillar of our strategy on slide 17. Building on our experience of
value-added services for e-shoppers in B2C, we plan to grow in the C2X market, reaching
57% market share in 2024, starting from the current 41%. This will be possible thanks to
the continuous improvement of our user experience.
In particular, we are allowing customers to send a package without ever using any pen or
paper and even without leaving home. That is quite a cultural change. We will be also
enhancing the traditional physical service through the support of the PuntoPoste network,
guaranteeing an inclusive and omnichannel service able to satisfy diﬀerent customers'
needs.
Let's watch a video on this topic.

Bloomberg Transcript

(Presentation)
Moving back to our strategic path. During the pandemic, we promptly supported the
government on delivering PPEs, capitalizing on our logistic capabilities, as mentioned by
Matteo. In a few weeks, we designed and implemented a set of solutions to store and
distribute over 1.5 billion PPE; distribute around 2 million doses of vaccines with the
challenge of a cold chain and over 5 million injection kits in addition to doses distributed
by Italian Army. It's conﬁrmed by this experience, our network has evolved in oﬀering
tailor-made services, combining warehousing and delivery with a record time to market.
Now let's start to slide 19. The evolution to fully ﬂedged logistic player is completed by the
growth in the B2 billion and contract logistics market, where we expect a relevant growth
in a stable market. We will achieve it through, ﬁrst, a customized oﬀer facilitated by
consolidated knowledge of our customers, and by the implementation of a new industryspeciﬁc commercial organization. Second, the integration between warehousing and
distribution solutions to improve end-to-end eﬃciency. Third, the introduction of
advanced and integrated tracking technologies, which will allow us to oﬀer a high-level
customer service, a key success factor in the B2 billion market. Finally, dedicated
investments to further improve our productive capacity. We will increase our market share
from 10% to 13% in 2024, with a positive price/mix eﬀect, thanks to yield management.
Moving to slide 20. Let me translate our strategy into ﬁnancial targets. Segment revenues
will grow 2% on average, with parcel revenues as the main driver, up 16% per year
between 2019 and 2024. On mail, we expect to oﬀset the market decline through the
integration of Nexive. Eﬃciencies will drive the plan with growing segment revenues per
FTE. This is a signiﬁcant increase, driven by network transformation and cost discipline.

Page 12 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

The historic achievement of operating proﬁt breakeven will be reached by 2024, and the
segment will be proﬁtable starting from 2025, as our CFO will discuss later on.
With Deliver22, we reached the stronger position in parcels through the leadership in the
fast-growing and competitive B2C segment. With our new plan, we will complete the
transformation of Mail & Parcel. From a mail-centric loss-making business unit, we will turn
into an all around logistic operator, running a proﬁtable business. We are looking forward
to planning for the challenges after 2025.
Thank you for your attention. Over to you, Guido.

Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. It is nice to speak to you again in a diﬀerent role since last time
we met. I'm indeed very proud to present you with our plan for the Financial Services
segment. After a quick overview of our achievements, I will focus on our strategy and
targets.
Before I start taking you through this presentation, let's watch a short video to set the
scene.

Bloomberg Transcript

(Presentation)
On slide two, in performing Deliver22, we have achieved great results in terms of
increased volume across all products and improved quality, complexity and range. As
Massimo Rosini said, we made a cultural change.
In Financial Services, we started from a zero-risk approach regardless of clients' proﬁle to
a customized oﬀer, better meeting their needs. A new products range prove successful to
shield our clients from the huge market volatility experienced in 2020, conﬁrming the role
of Poste looking after clients' interest ﬁrst. We have invested and focused on our people
and platforms. In the coming years, we will build on these solid grounds to enhance and
evolve our technological platforms and become truly omnichannel, allowing our
customers to interact with us whenever and wherever they want, moving seamlessly from
one channel to another.
From a ﬁnancial standpoint, we demonstrated our ability to eﬀectively manage our BTP
portfolio with returns steadily above market yields. For the future, we'll retain ﬂexibility in
a reﬂationary scenario due to its hedging structure. Gross revenues are expected to be
broadly stable over the plan, supporting the investment in people to achieve deﬁnite
transformation of the network.
Let's move to slide four. As shown in the video, from a commercial point of view, our
people of 8,000 ﬁnancial advisers, our products range and our technological platforms
are the reason of our success and so far, and will be the pillars of our future evolution.
Deliver22 drove a deep transformation of the way we engage with our clients, the way we
Page 13 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

look at their needs and the products we oﬀer to them. We've successfully implemented
this transformation working along three pillars.
First, the skills of our people. We invested in our ﬁnancial advisers, up-skilling and
reenergizing our workforce, providing training and speciﬁc commercial incentives. We
have created a new career stream focused on ﬁnancial and insurance sales, along which
our people will be able to progress in a comprehensive and linear career evolution. From
an organizational point of view, we have promoted 600 middle managers through an
eﬀective implementation and supervision of commercial strategies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, on products, we introduced a wider range in wealth management, in insurance
and lending. We did this, leveraging on Poste's power to attract, a growing number of
partners, which have been successfully integrated in our controlled open platform. The
latest is our JV with BNP Group in the salary-backed loans business. Lastly, as you saw
from Matteo's presentation and from the video, our tech platforms and capabilities were
key. They allow us today to proﬁle and segment our client base and to prioritize and
monitor quantity and quality of commercial activity. Better and deeper client data are now
used to recognize the true potential of clients and to engage with them and we intend to
accelerate this evolution in the next years.
Coming to slide ﬁve. We have updated the breakdown of our total ﬁnancial assets by
customer segment. Back in February '18, with the presentation of Deliver22, many of you
were impressed by how many TFAs we had from private clients. At the time, we served all
clients in a very similar way and therefore, the relevant target set by the plan was to
develop a more customized service model. This is what we did. As a consequence, total
ﬁnancial assets grew 12% from EUR 510 billion in 2017 to EUR 569 billion in 2020 despite a
challenging market conditions.
Besides, clients with more complex investment needs contributed more than
proportionately to such growth. People are indeed now aware that Poste can provide
them with liquidity products as well as with savings and investment products, such as
multi-class insurance. As already mentioned, in the last three years, we have proﬁled our
customers and evolved our service model, focusing on private and aﬄuent. The private
client segment, which embeds high-value and proﬁtability grew 37% since 2017. The
aﬄuent one grew 10% with a stunning EUR 25 billion increase.
As you may recall, this last year, we provided a dedicated service to private clients with
our premium oﬀer. In just one year, we attracted over 3,000 customers with over 2 billion
TFAs. As we will see later, this is our laboratory to grow and develop new and better
solutions for our clients. Finally, on mass clients, TFAs increased by EUR 10 million, while
we work on the cost to serve eﬃciency and cross-selling.
Let's move to slide seven. Let me stress that our plan is based on the conservative
macroeconomic assumptions on the top of the slide, which are relevant for both the
ﬁnancial and insurance segments. We indeed assume European and Italian GDP to
bounce back over the plan. The low house debt ratio could also represent a signiﬁcant
opportunity for our business model. We expect the ﬁnancial wealth of households to

Page 14 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

increase at a steady rate over the plan, supporting our growth in savings and investment
products. More importantly, we're conservatively assuming that rates will remain low for
long, and we have used the forward curve rate for all projections. We believe Italian
spreads will remain in line with current levels, beneﬁting from European recovery plan
and ECB support. As we will see later, this environment will allow for solid, although
trending downwards return on our BTP portfolio.
Turning to slide eight. Medium-term market trends paved the way to the business
opportunities embedded in our plan. As a ﬁrst trend, preference for liquidity, which has
increased in these volatile times represents our ﬁrst opportunity to increase ﬂows from
liquid savings products. As we just said, we're assuming a low interest rate environment.
This, combined with increased preference for liquidity, will enable us to improve
portfolio's asset allocation, shifting it towards managed products with high returns,
leveraging on the described evolution of the advisory model. As a third trend, customers'
expectation for integrated physical and remote interactions have been accelerated by the
pandemic and are now considered essential. This will lead to a faster transition towards an
omnichannel service model. As a fourth trend, the envisaged economic recovery is
expected to favor consumer spending, which we intend to address with our
comprehensive personal lending products.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to slide nine. As you've seen in the video, the continuous evolution of our service
model has been and is the basis for growth across all business lines. We were right in
marking the path back in 2017, and now we need to keep doing more and better of the
same, becoming fully omnichannel.
In wealth management, growth in the coming years will be driven by diversiﬁcation of
customers' portfolio and further segmentation, fueled by new products to maximize risk
return proﬁle with a focus on ESG. In this sense, the impressive ﬁgure is that TFAs are
expected to increase by EUR 45 billion in four years, 75% of which represented by
investment products, reaching over EUR 200 billion in assets under management, thanks
to the leadership of our insurance company. Financial advisers will keep working in
retaining client assets and bringing in the wealth they have invested elsewhere.
They will focus on improving eﬃciencies and portfolios supported by client proﬁling and
the integration of P&C into our advisory model. In this way customers can increase their
P&C coverage, limiting their exposure to risk from casualties and investor savings in a
more eﬃcient way. P&C is embedded in our modular oﬀer, which allows to add more
protections in a very simple way increasing average ticket. The distribution of model
insurance will then make us a fully ﬂedged insurance company in the eyes of our clients.
In loan and mortgages, the strengthening of our partnerships, customer segmentation
and data suite will allow us to double our volumes. In salary- and pension-backed loans,
we intend to address our clients, leveraging on our comprehensive database and
partners. The next challenge is now to provide clients with a seamless journey across all
Poste's distribution channels.

Page 15 of 49



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

On slide 10, our key priority is to become the main reference for all clients' ﬁnancial
needs, attracting all of their wealth and advising them across higher value segments.
Meeting more complex customer needs will also drive higher per capita proﬁtability. The
premium segment has been a successful pilot, and we want to keep developing along
this line and expect it to -- and extend it to other segments. We set up a team of our topperforming ﬁnancial advisers providing them with the most advanced tools such as
BlackRock's Aladdin platform to deﬁne clients portfolio, monitor market movements and
suggest tactical and strategic actions. Clients fully understood the validity of such model
based on a ﬂat fee scheme and shows to trust Poste as the reference ﬁnancial institution
to manage their wealth.
As an enabler in the coming years, we target over 200 dedicated ﬁnancial advisers for this
segment. As shown in the graph, this evolution brings with it the increase of value per
client along all segments. A traction of clients' wealth is indeed key to this process,
enabling us to upgrade mass clients towards the aﬄuent segment and the aﬄuent
towards the premium one.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to the right side of the slide, we intend to further support our ﬁnancial advisers to
increase clients' coverage, providing them with state of the art technology and datadriven capabilities. Most demanding clients will want to interact with us shifting
seamlessly from one channel to another, looking up an online oﬀer, discussing it with a
ﬁnancial adviser at the post oﬃce and then conﬁrming the trade on app or web. Our
platforms will also enable us to serve mass clients in a more cost-eﬃcient way.
Coming to slide 11. The integration of a P&C modular oﬀer into our advisory model will
contribute to reduced liquidity held by clients for precautionary purposes, increasing their
investment and thus, optimizing their portfolios. Indeed, a client was properly covered
from the main casualty risk in the best position to take savviest and more learned
investment decisions.
The structure of our modular policy permits customers to quickly and easily identify areas
to cover and allows them to add or recovers in time, depending on their risk perception
and needs. This will promote cross-selling and increase the average ticket size. Andrea
will go into more details in his presentation, describing how we embed some casualty
protection in our life investment product.
Let's now move to the loans and mortgages on slide 12. We have a wide range of client
base with more than 7 million having their salary or pension credited monthly in our
accounts or passbooks. We also have a lot of data about them, which, thanks to our IT
capabilities, we can elaborate on and analyze. The same IT capabilities also allow us to
interact and liaise with third-party partners by means of our controlled open platform.
These features are very valuable assets to ﬁnancial institutions underwriting personal
loans and mortgages and permit us to select the leading players to partner with in the
best interest of our clients.
The combination of a deep knowledge of customers, state-of-the-art IT platform and best
partners allow us today to be market leader in this segment with a competitive time to

Page 16 of 49



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

market and high approval rate. This will enable us to signiﬁcantly increase volumes of
loans and mortgages distributed over the plan. A major role in our growth is played by
salary and pension backed loans where we intend to strengthen our leadership, such as
product, is indeed very interesting in a volatile scenario for both clients and partners. It
appeals to customers since it is sound and straightforward. It appeals to partners since it
presents low capital absorption and good margins. Poste is focused on this segment to
render the product more transparent and easier to access and to accelerate this strategy
as recently invested and ﬁnanced, a specialized vehicle in JV with BNP Group.
On to slide 13. We're fully aware that to implement our ambitious plan, we need our
advisory to be able to sell our entire range of products, ﬁnancial P&C and investments. In
this sense, hidden value and potential of our people is still signiﬁcant. Performance is
indeed very concentrated and therefore, even minor eﬃciency improvements, if
implemented across the entire workforce, are bound to bring a material eﬀect on results.
It is thus fundamental to grow and transform our ﬁnancial advisory network by constantly
adding qualiﬁed women and men, improving overall skills and productivity.
We started back in 2017 with 8,000 ﬁnancial advisers with an average age of 45.5 years,
26% of which holding a university degree. The transformation, which we've put in place
over the past years, has deeply changed these ﬁgures. We've hired and promoted to this
role 2,600 people. At the same time, 2,500 retired or were allocated to other more
suitable roles. As a result, we still have 8,000 ﬁnancial advisers, but 1/3 of them are now
new to their role, 43% hold a university degree, and the average age fell to almost 43.
And by the way in the meantime, everybody got older by three years. I'm also very proud
that almost 70% of our ﬁnancial advisers are women, a gender mix that I expect to remain
stable over the plan. Once again we need to do more and better of what we already did.
This is why we will continue investing in people, and this is particularly true in the next
four years when we intend to reach 10,000 ﬁnancial advisers with an average age of 40
years, 60% of which holding a university degree.
On slide 15, we've set ambitious but achievable targets in terms of volumes and quality.
TFAs will grow an average 2% each year, reaching EUR 650 billion by 2024, supported by
retail net inﬂows with an improving mix between liquidity, which has signiﬁcantly
increased on our accounts over the last few years and investment products. To achieve
this goal in wealth management, as said, we will continue to leverage on our leadership in
insurance and, in particular, on our multi-class oﬀer, which guarantees appealing returns
with a limited exposure to market. We expect this product to remain key in the coming
years also because it proved successful in eﬀectively shielding portfolios from the severe
market volatility experienced in 2020.
In clients portfolio reallocation, we will target a mix having asset under management at
32% of retail portfolios. We expect that this will bring the multi-class share in insurance
product mix to 60% in 2024. Andrea will go into more details of our ambition on the
insurance side. On loan and mortgages, the partnership just described will enable us to
double distributed volumes, also thanks to salary-backed loans and without bearing any
credit risk.

Page 17 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

On slide 16. Revenues from investments are trending downwards as low interest rates and
spreads are expected to continue over the plan and deposits are projected stable with
liquidity shifting to savings and investment products. Back in February '18, we presented
our strategy for the investment portfolio with a mix between NII and capital gains
adapting to changing interest rates.
We've demonstrated our ability to eﬀectively manage our portfolio with returns steadily
above market yields over the past years. Based on the current low interest rate
environment, and our track record, we intend to mitigate the reduction of net interest
income with an active portfolio management contribution of EUR 0.4 billion per year over
the plan.
Please note that our notion of active portfolio management does not mean realizing
capital gains at the phase of future coupons, but rather crystallizing a value that would be
lost otherwise, taking advantage of Italian bond market volatility and our countercyclical
deposit base. At the end of 2016, indeed, we had EUR 2.9 billion of annualized capital
gains. Over the last four years, our active portfolio management delivered EUR 1.6 billion
revenues. And as of today our portfolio still shows an unrealized value above EUR 6
billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Slide 17 now, where we show the results of a sensitivity analysis on investment portfolio
returns and the diﬀerent stressed interest rate scenarios. Parallel shocks apply to the swap
rate last one year, with rates increased by 50 and 100 basis points and decreased by 50
basis points. The yellow and blue bars show that overall revenues from the investment
portfolio are resilient under all scenarios.
Please note that these sensitivities do not factor in any strategy which we might
implement to dynamically adapt to diﬀerent scenarios and would considerably improve
results. The gray shaded part of the graph shows that we have signiﬁcant gross unrealized
capital gains. The result of this analysis conﬁrm the resilience of the BTP portfolio returns
as we are able to meet our revenue targets under all scenarios.
Turning to slide 18. Bear in mind that our projections assume that interest rates remain low
over the plan. In a reﬂationary scenario, we would beneﬁt from signiﬁcant upside from NII.
Remember that about 50% of our portfolio swapped or forward swap and its overall
duration is below six years and decreasing based on our investment plan. In a reﬂationary
scenario, indeed, the ﬂexible structure of our portfolio would allow us to exceed our
targets with a number of actions.
Should long-term rates start to increase, we can restructure or unwind part of the hedges,
locking in higher NII, while marginally increasing duration. Should short-term rates also
increase, we would beneﬁt from the variable leg of our asset swaps. In the unlikely event
the rates decreased further, we will leverage on unrealized capital gains to achieve our
overall planned revenue targets.
On slide 19. As you can see from inﬂows, in the last three years, we have put postal
savings back at the core of our ﬁnancial oﬀer, overachieving by EUR 1.5 billion our
Page 18 of 49



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

ambition inﬂows targets. As you know, the new postal savings distribution agreement is
under negotiation with the issuer GDP. Remember that postal savings are key for
government ﬁnancial needs and that by law a service of general economic interest. Poste,
as the sole distributor is, therefore, continuing its activity and over the ﬁrst two months of
the year has already beaten last year results by almost EUR 2.3 billion gross inﬂows. The
previous fee structure provided for both management and upfront fees, depending on
the product placed. The new agreement, according to law and in line with previous
contracts, will remunerate Poste as a distributor in line with market standards.
Let's look at slide 20, with a brief overview of the targets and KPIs for the ﬁnancial
segment, while Camillo will give you further detail in his presentation. Segment gross
revenues will be broadly stable over the plan, thanks to higher distribution revenues,
oﬀsetting the decrease in NII. The operating proﬁt trend reﬂects higher intersegment
costs required to support the transformation of the distribution network and the upgrade
of the service model. As we have seen, a key driver of our results will be the increase in
TFAs, which will grow an average 3% between '19 and '24, supported by retail net inﬂows
with an improving mix between liquidity and investment products. The average fee per
client will reach almost EUR 300 as a result of an increased average ticket per product
sold and higher value per client.
Thank you. And over to you, Andrea.

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Andrea Novelli, Head of
PosteVita, our insurance company. Today I'm going to present to you our strategy of
sustainable and proﬁtable growth for the insurance division, starting from our
achievements on Deliver22.
Moving to slide four. In the past three years, we delivered on all fronts despite
unexpected headwinds coming from the COVID-19 emergency. We exceeded our
proﬁtability targets, delivering EUR 200 million EBIT on top of our plan with the resilient
results in 2020. We also currently enjoy a capital position stronger than when we started,
with the Solvency II ratio around 300% despite the growth of our business. This is due to
the recent improvement of market conditions, but also to the management actions taken
to reinforce the capital against market volatility. Along these lines, we improved the mix of
our life business, reaching in advance the share of multi-class products targeted for 2022.
On top of our capital, this helps the diversiﬁcation of our clients' portfolios and has a
positive impact on our margins. We are now a fully ﬂedged non-life insurance business.
We have a complete retail modular oﬀer, a smart distribution model for motor insurance
and a fast-growing employee beneﬁts business. This is combined with one of the leading
third-party administrator for health insurance.
Going to slide ﬁve. So our 2020 results were resilient despite the COVID-19 emergency.
We suﬀered the most in terms of new business volumes during the ﬁrst national lockdown
in Italy between Q1 and Q2 last year due to post oﬃces' closures. At the same time, even
during that period, our insurance business remained very stable because we actually saw
lapse rate going down as opposed to other players. And after the summer, we
Page 19 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

experienced a strong rebound in commercial activity. We also suﬀered some volatility in
our Solvency II ratio which, however remained always above our managerial ambition,
despite the sharp deterioration of ﬁnancial market conditions before the summer. Since
then, we recovered well above the COVID-19 levels, as I showed earlier.

FINAL

Turning to slide six. So on top of reaching our Deliver22 targets, in the past three years we
created the condition to upgrade them. So let's now see what lies ahead.
Going to slide seven. First of all, looking at the macro and market plans, as Guido showed
before, ﬁnancial savings of Italian families will continue to steadily grow. We believe that
given the uncertain environment and the recent ﬁnancial markets volatility, retail investors
will look more and more for low-risk and low-volatility investment products. As we had
anticipated to be conservative, we still expect very low interest rates in the coming years,
but as we will further explore, the structure of our insurance portfolio ensures ﬂexibility
and resilience of returns also in that scenario. Finally, there are secular trends that will
continue to foster our growth in P&C, such as the under-insurance of Italians compared to
most other European countries, and I will present later the actions we are putting in place
to help to progress on this front.

Bloomberg Transcript

On to slide eight. As I just said, we expect an increasing demand for low-risk and lowvolatility investment products from retail investors. PosteVita is ideally positioned to serve
such demand because managed life insurance products are not subject to mark-to-market
volatility, and we take care of adjusting the asset allocation over time in the interest of our
clients. We believe this is the best approach in the risk adverse environment caused by
COVID-19.
On top of that, as we've explained earlier, BancoPosta is going to upgrade its advisory
model to also help clients diversify their existing portfolios. As you can see on the slide,
like most Italians, our clients have excess liquidity on current accounts and passbooks,
and they lack long-term diversiﬁed investments. We expect that an increased demand for
new investments and an additional control turnover of the enforced business will lead to a
strong growth of life gross written premiums, which are expected to reach EUR 26 billion
by 2024. This, in turn, leads to a signiﬁcant increase of life technical reserves and TFAs,
which will also beneﬁt from much lower maturities compared to the previous years.
Going to slide nine. So reaching in advance the target of mixed diversiﬁcation, PosteVita
became the largest issuer of multi-class products in Italy already in 2019. We are now
ready to upgrade our target of share of multi-class products to more than 60% by 2024.
Besides the mix, between the end of last year and the ﬁrst months of 2021, we reshaped
all our products in a way that is more eﬃcient in terms of capital absorption, while
remaining very attractive for retail investors.
We now oﬀer capital guarantee, or in case of death, but we shortened the maturity of
products to be closer to the current duration of our investment portfolio, meaning that the
risk for our clients not getting back at least the invested capital is very remote. This new
generation of capital-light products will account for most of gross written premiums going
forward as legacy products will remain available only for subsequent premiums.

Page 20 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

New products also carry higher margins compared to the existing stock, while remaining
very competitive for investors with respect to market benchmarks. In turn, multi-class
products have better fees than Class 1 instruments due to a larger equity component. All
this will contribute to an improvement of our investment margin, which will get above 100
basis points on average reserves by 2024.
Moving to slide 10. Over the past years, we also started to diversify the investment
portfolio underlying our Life business. Going ahead, we plan to gradually reduce the
weight of government bonds and increase investments in real assets. This will have
several positive eﬀects; it will reduce the volatility of solvency ratio, it will beneﬁt
investment returns, and it will contribute to the relaunch of investments in Italy and
Europe supporting recovery.
Investment returns are already signiﬁcantly higher than the average minimum guaranteed
return of our portfolio. The diversiﬁcation of the mix, combined with a sizable amount of
unrealized gains embedded in the portfolio and its long duration, will allow us to keep the
return stable through the cycle, while minimum guarantees are expected to further
decline because the new business does not carry any minimum guarantee. As already
mentioned, this will allow us to deliver to clients very attractive risk-adjusted returns in the
current environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now move to the Non-Life business on slide 11. Thanks to what we have done in the
past years, this business is now ready for strong growth. First, our modular retail oﬀer
launched in Q1 last year was already showing very good results before COVID-19 and is
now growing high double digits in the ﬁrst months of 2021.
On one hand, our ﬁnancial and insurance advisers are becoming more and more eﬃcient
at selling, both in terms of number of policies and average ticket. On the other hand, in
the post-COVID-19 environment, most clients will be more and more sensitive to the
importance of insurance coverage.
Moving to motor insurance. After completing a pilot project with our employees, we
opened to the market at the beginning of March, and we've gradually increased the
number of post oﬃces enabled to sell such products. We expect to be at full speed
before the end of the plan.
All this will contribute to the fast growth of protection gross written premiums, reaching
EUR 1.5 billion by 2024. Leveraging on our internal capabilities in non-motor insurance
and on the risk-free model we have for motor, we are comfortable with keeping costs
under control, with a combined ratio stable around 80%.
A clear example of our capabilities is our third-party administrator for health insurance.
We're already one of the largest in Italy, which, in 2020 alone, managed more than 3
million health care claims. Another example, our multichannel capabilities for claims
management, thanks to which, last year, we managed around 50% of claims through our
digital channels. So thanks to this proﬁtable growth, the Non-Life business is expected to

Page 21 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

account for up to 15% of PosteVita revenues by 2024, thus contributing to the progressive
diversiﬁcation of the insurance business.

FINAL

Moving to slide 12. Now I would like to explain our business model in motor insurance
because, as we do with loans, we believe it is quite unique in Italy. We have initially
partnered with the two largest Non-Life insurance groups in Italy, Unipol and Generali, to
distribute motor insurance to our clients, leveraging on our signiﬁcant customer base.
To do this, we are training 6,000 salespeople selected among the best frontline tellers in
the largest post oﬃces, and we will gradually enable 4,000 oﬃces to sell motor insurance
by the end of 2021. We will pass on the underwriting risk to our partners, and we will
retain distribution fees in line with market practice. Our partners will also be in charge of
claims management, while we're keeping control of the relationship with our clients.
As Matteo already mentioned, we believe this is a smart distribution model, both for us
and our partners. We will also create on our side additional cross-selling opportunities for
other products, as Italians will increasingly come to recognize Poste as a fully ﬂedged
insurance company.

Bloomberg Transcript

On slide 13, let's now focus on our ESG journey. In the past years, we increasingly put ESG
policies at the core of our investment and further structuring activities. We are now ready
to raise the bar further by committing to integrate ESG within all Life investment products.
Going to slide 14. We believe that as an ESG-responsible investor and insurer, we should
also contribute to the reduction of underinsurance in our country. This is particularly
important for more vulnerable social groups. We will do this in two ways.
First, BancoPosta will include the P&C products in its wealth management advisory model.
We will propose each client to do an insurance checkup without any obligation to buy
products. Then based on the results, our advisers will explain to clients the importance
and relevance of missing insurance coverage.
On top of this, as we do say BancoPosta advisory model will leverage our enhanced client
proﬁling tools, enabling us to oﬀer more tailored solutions to clients. With this approach,
we expect to more than double over the plan the assure of clients buying P&C covers on
top of other products.
We are also progressively investing P&C coverage in our Life products. Once again we do
this today to raise client awareness on their need to protect their families and properties
from risk. A clear example of this approach is the critical illness protection we embedded
in all Life investment products since the beginning of 2021 with no additional charge for
clients. We plan to generate by 2024 more than EUR 50 million of P&C gross written
premiums from these kind of products.
And ﬁnally, on slide 15, we discuss capital management as the last pillar of our strategy. As
you have already seen, we closed last year and started this year with a strong capital
Page 22 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

position, thanks to the improvement of market conditions and to the actions we put in
place in the past years. As you have seen, our solvency ratio is currently around 300%.
So we are comfortable in reaﬃrming our managerial ambition of a Solvency II ratio above
200% through the cycle, at the same time, putting at work the capital we need to support
strong business growth. We will also continue to work on the reduction of the sensitivity of
our solvency ratio to the risk factors relevant for us, such as the exposure to the volatility
of BTP spreads and to ultra-low or negative risk-free rates.
The diversiﬁcation of our investment portfolio and the improvement of the product mix
will beneﬁt both our clients and us by reducing solvency volatility. On top of this, we are
continuing to work on the development of the internal model, and we'll consider over
time any available opportunity to optimize our capital structure.
Moving now to slide 16. Let me show you our ﬁnancial targets for the insurance segments.
Thanks to strong growth in both volumes and margins, we anticipate a robust 10%
average growth for our top line, with a target of EUR 2.7 billion at the end of the plan. For
the ﬁrst part of the plan, the Life business will contribute the most to our growth, while
towards the end, we expect the share coming from Non-Life to be more and more
material as protection products will go faster in the coming years.

Bloomberg Transcript

In line with the signiﬁcant increase of the advisory and commercial eﬀort by our network
and along with market benchmarks, we foresee higher distribution fees, which will
translate in revenues for our network. As a consequence, EBIT is estimated to steadily
grow to EUR 1.3 billion and net proﬁt to reach EUR 0.9 billion.
Now let me wrap up my presentation with some key messages on slide 18. The ﬁnancial
targets you have just seen clearly showed the insurance division to strongly contribute to
the group's top and bottom line growth, as PosteVita will be even more at the core of
Poste Italiane wealth management strategy. We believe our growth will be sustainable
and proﬁtable, both in Life and P&C insurance, as we intend to broaden further our role of
ESG-responsible investor and insurer.
Based on our achievements on all fronts in the previous years, we are conﬁdent that our
upgraded targets are within our reach. As you have seen, we have very clear in mind the
actions we need to put in place and how to execute them. Thank you very much for your
attention, and over to you, Marco.

Marco Siracusano

{BIO 20101643 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrea. Good morning, everyone. It is my pleasure today to lead you through
our transformation journey, implementing Deliver 2022 and towards our new plan. But let
me start with our impressive achievements, KPIs and ﬁnancials.
Payments & Mobile showed a resilient performance, paving the way for future growth,
thanks to increasing market of opportunities. We are ready to cope with the new scenario
through our product innovations and ecosystem developed over the past three years.
Page 23 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

Postepay is deﬁnitely key for Poste Italiane's omnichannel platform through the successful
integration of payments and telco and, in the near future, also energy as a new business,
providing integrated solutions for our customers' everyday needs. All business lines will
contribute to future growth.
Turning to slide four. In 2020, COVID-19 pandemic deeply changed customers' behaviors,
both in payments and telco. Thanks to Deliver22, we have been able to successfully
respond to an unprecedented situation, riding the wave on new trends, both in digital
payments and telco, and overperforming the market.
Payments transactions value grew 16% year-on-year versus a market decrease of 1%.
Contactless transactions value grew 37% versus a market increase of 29%. E-commerce
transactions value grew by 32% versus a reduction of the market of 3%.
In telco, lockdown measures and widespread smart working habits generated for all
Italians a strong increase of faster [ph] broadbands and mobile connections usage, of
which our customers' usage grew by over 100%.

Bloomberg Transcript

These achievements provide a clear picture of how Postepay is leading the fast-growing
payment market in Italy with an over-the-top positioning. In e-commerce transactions, we
indeed serve both Poste Italiane customers and other Italians as the preferred payment
tool supplier for the shoppers, as already mentioned by Matteo.
Moving to slide ﬁve. Since 2018, we delivered a double-digit growth on all targets, with
revenues increasing 11.6% and EBIT increasing 12.8%. 2020 results are material evidence
of the resiliency of our business model in payments and telco, adapting to the changing
environment. The number of card transactions grew 19%, with e-commerce transaction
growing a remarkable 40%. In telco, thanks to our loyal customer base, we increased
mobile and landline stock by 6%.
Moving to slide seven. We operate in one of the most attractive markets for the upcoming
years. Italy is one of the most underpenetrated card payments market in Europe, being
23rd out of the 27 European countries. But we had recently seen an acceleration, which is
expected to continue steadily over the plan.
With regards to the telco market, while mobile segment is now stable in terms of humanto-human theme, the broadband and ﬁber market oﬀers signiﬁcant growth opportunities.
In particular, ﬁber-to-the-home penetration in Italy is just at 7%, signiﬁcantly below
European standards. But it is expected to grow quickly, with the subscribers increasing by
39% by 2025, reaching 10 million lines. These trends will be supported by the change in
customers' behavior and the focus of national investments on digital transition.
Let's move to slide eight, where we present our role as the key driver of Poste Italiane's
omnichannel platform, successfully integrating an unrivaled network our post oﬃces,
digital and third-party channels. Payments will remain at the heart of Postepay's
ecosystem, simplifying and enhancing our customer access also to telco and the new
energy services.
Page 24 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

We will also increase cross-selling to improve customer experience, beneﬁting from the
wide range of services oﬀered at the group level. Our fully integrated platform is a
fundamental part of Poste Italiane's sustainability framework, supporting eco-friendly
products, issuing 20 million biodegradable cards by 2025 and also contributing to
reduce the digital device in Italy.
Let's move to slide nine. To widen the range of products and services, we decided to
enter into the energy market by the ﬁrst half of 2022, capitalizing on our omnichannel
platform. In this ﬁeld, Postepay aims at promoting market maturity, becoming a safe and
trusted provider ahead of market liberalization by 2023.
Our new energy oﬀer, both power and gas, will represent an accessible and very
innovative option to reach the liberalized market for more than 40% of retail customers
who are still, today part of the protected market. Postepay's integrated platform will
provide the customers a fully ﬂedged oﬀer of own family services; mobile, broadband,
ﬁber, power and gas, in a user-friendly and modular way creating a one-stop shop
experience available both in our post oﬃces and on our digital channels.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to slide 10 on the key drivers of our new plan. In payments, we will strengthen
our oﬀer through digital and touchless solutions for the retail market, while seizing new
opportunities in the SMEs segment. Furthermore, focusing on the opportunities arising
from PSD2, we aim at increasing the number of use cases for both Postepay card holders
and other customers holding a bank account.
Moreover, we'll expand cooperation with Bancomat from acquiring to issuing, and we'll
leverage from partnership with these third-party networks. Total card transactions are
expected to increase 14% over the plan, supported by 29% increase in e-commerce
transactions. The number of the wallets is also expected to increase 15%, reaching 10.7
million.
Moving to telco. We will strengthen our position with innovative loyalty and acquisition
oﬀers in mobile, while increasing eﬃciency, thanks to our new ﬁve-year wholesale
agreement with Vodafone. In the ﬁxed-line business, we will expand our addressable
market by launching both a broadband and a new distinctive ﬁber oﬀer in Q2 2021. This
will lead telco stocks to 5.1 million, leveraging on a growing market trend.
Let's move to slide 11 on our strategy in the energy business. We will enter the market for
both power and gas as a forefront runner for the green energy. We intend to diﬀerentiate
our 100% green oﬀer with an innovative approach to sustainability.
And we'll engage with the ﬁnal retail customers, thanks to a smart use of technology,
superior digital customer experience, and proximity. The stock of contracts is expected to
reach 1.5 million by 2025, with EBIT breakeven in 2024, positioning Postepay among the
top ﬁve players in Italy in terms of customer base.
Let's move to slide 12 on the main KPIs and targets. Over the plan, we expected the total
number of cards to remain broadly stable, about 29 million, with a double-digit growth of
Page 25 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

higher-margin Postepay Evolution, our light checking account. Moreover, card payments
are expected to grow double digit, both in value and the number of transactions, with ecommerce transaction growing 29%.

FINAL

And in addition, we expect a double-digit growth in Postepay deposit balance and ewallets. In telco, we expect to grow our mobile and ﬁxed-line stock by 3%, reaching 5.1
million lines by 2024.
Moving to slide 13, our ﬁnancial targets. Our strategy will lead to a double-digit growth in
both revenues and EBIT. We target EUR 1 billion revenues by 2022 and EUR 1.6 billion by
2024, thanks to the contribution of payments, telco and the new energy oﬀer, leading to a
20% growth. EBIT is expected to reach EUR 0.4 billion by 2024 and net income at EUR 0.3
billion, with an average growth of 10%.
Compared to 2018, when this segment was established, we are doubling both EBIT and
net proﬁt by 2024. Moreover, we are delivering this very attractive ﬁnancial proﬁle, while
creating the new energy business from scratch, upgrading telco oﬀers and managing the
transition from traditional payments to innovative and digital payments, which will create a
stronger, integrated and sustainable business at the end of the plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to slide 15 for some closing remarks. Our transformation journey, started with
Postepay's creation at the end of 2018, has been conﬁrmed by our achievements. Now we
are ready to further accelerate our growth path towards 2024 and 2025.
2024 revenues double-digit growth is strongly supported by payments and telco as well
as by the new energy oﬀer. Operating proﬁt and net proﬁt will follow a solid growth
trajectory over the plan. Starting from 2025, the new energy oﬀer will further boost
proﬁtability.
Finally, let me remind you that our achievements and targets are a value of the entire
group, supporting Poste Italiane's overall omnichannel strategy. Thank you. And over to
you, Matteo.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thanks. Thank you, Marco. You probably all know Satya Nadella, the CEO of Microsoft, he
says that, basically, every company is or is becoming a software company these days. At
Poste, we feel a bit this way. So let's hear from our partner. Over to you, Satya.

Satya Nadella

{BIO 3224315 <GO>}

Hello, and thank you so much for having me as we mark this important milestone in our
partnership. Over the past year, we have witnessed the second wave of digital
transformation sweeping every company and every industry. Organizations everywhere
are accelerating their digital initiatives to build resilience and transform, and Poste Italiane
is a leading example of this.

Page 26 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

You quickly leveraged our platform to enable your people to work remotely and maintain
business continuity. You kept key services like postal, banking and insurance running
when your customers needed them most. You reimagined new ways to serve customers
virtually, from remote selling to customer service to chat bots. Together, we rapidly built
your COVID vaccine distribution platform, helping streamline the process to get vaccines
where they are needed most.
All of this underscores why our strategic partnership is so important. Together, we will
accelerate not only the digital transformation of Poste Italiane, but the millions of
organizations across Italy that rely on your services everyday. Our partnership builds on a
long history of collaboration, and it's just the beginning. Together, we will create trusted
digital services to help public sector organizations and small businesses across Italy
navigate today's challenges and emerge stronger.
We are glad to be in this journey with you. And look forward to our collective opportunity
ahead. Thank you, all so very much.

Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everyone. Today I will walk you through the key ﬁnancial targets of our
new 2024 Sustain & Innovate strategic plan. I will begin by breaking down the key ﬁgures
across our business segments. I will then discuss our plans with respect to cost discipline
and capital allocation. Lastly, I will show you how we will maintain an eﬃcient and strong
balance sheet across all business segments, while continuing to distribute a growing and
competitive annual dividend.
Let's start on slide three. As already mentioned by Matteo, we have consistently achieved
and overachieved our previous targets despite the unprecedented pandemic situation we
faced in 2020. Our strong business resilience allowed us to conﬁrm to our dividend policy
in one of the most challenging years of recent history, thus distributing over EUR 1.8
billion over the past three years.
Despite the revenue headwinds in 2020, our net proﬁt reached EUR 1.2 billion, exceeding
Deliver22 planned target of EUR 1.1 billion. We were able to achieve these strong results,
also thanks to our ﬂexible and eﬃcient cost management strategy.
Turning to slide four. Revenues will grow steadily over the next four years, reaching EUR
12.7 billion in 2024, from EUR 11 billion in 2019, within our growth of 3%. EBIT will grow
EUR 2.2 billion in 2024, from EUR 1.8 billion. Net proﬁt will reach a signiﬁcant EUR 1.6
billion in 2024, from EUR 1.2 billion in 2020. Our enhanced dividend policy will allow us to
distribute over EUR 3 billion to our shareholders over the plan, ensuring competitive
remuneration as one strong ﬂexibility based on our conservative payout ratio.
As Matteo mentioned before, our policy envisages EUR 0.486 dividend per share for
2020. For 2021, we have committed to circa EUR 0.55, with an increase of 14% year-onyear based on a 60% payout ratio, excluding the revaluation of SIA stake of about EUR

Page 27 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

300 million. Starting from 2022, we have committed with 6% annual growth rate, in line
with the expected increase of net proﬁt over the plan.
Let's now turn to the ﬁnancial targets of each business segment, starting with Mail, Parcel
& Distribution on slide six. We expect our revenues to increase annually by 2% over the
plan. Let me highlight the relevant and transformational nature of this growth trajectory,
with Mail, Parcel & Distribution becoming a sustainable business, positively contributing
to the overall growth of the group revenues and EBIT.
Looking at the underlying drivers in more detail; the resilient mail revenues capitalizing on
the recent Nexive consolidation; successful business transformation with parcel-focused
logistics operator, with all product lines contributing to growth; focusing on a value-based
strategy, B2C, B2B, C2X and international. By 2025, we expect to reach the landmark goal
of our partial revenues accounting for more than 50% of total segment revenues,
ensuring a sustainable future for our logistics business.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will reach breakeven by 2024 and positively within 2025. This is a major business
milestone and the biggest achievement ever for Mail, Parcel & Distribution. The successful
integration of Nexive will positively contribute with EUR 100 million of annual running
synergies, as already highlighted by Massimo in his presentation.
Let's look in detail on slide seven on the EBIT evolution of Mail, Parcel & Distribution.
Thanks to sustainable revenue growth, our ﬂexible cost management levers, combined
with continuous transformation, we expect to reach breakeven by 2024. Our ability to
anticipate key emerging trends and the successful implementation of strategic actions will
lead to a proﬁtable business from 2025 onwards. We expect higher revenues paid to this
segment and distribution fees as a result of the relevant increase of the advisory and
commercial eﬀort at BancoPosta.
Moving to slide eight on ﬁnancial services. In line with Deliver22, we aim to keep revenue
stable as we respond to market headwinds, with increased commercial focus on growing
distribution. Given the expected low rates environment, we are rebalancing the mix
between the contribution from active portfolio management and NII, in line with the
strategy outlined in Deliver22.
We conservatively assume low interest rates over the plan, with a negative impact on NII.
However the robustness of our business model will still allow us to reach EUR 5.9 billion of
gross revenues in 2024, as P&L is achievable under all rate scenarios.
The contribution from active portfolio management to P&L planned for 2021 has been
already secured for the most part. Our investment portfolio has a ﬂexible structure and
overall duration below six years and initially decreasing over the plan, and about 50% of
the portfolio is swapped to variable. In a reﬂationary scenario, we are best positioned to
realize higher NII, activating managerial levers to restructure or unwind part of the
hedges.

Page 28 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

Operating proﬁt will decrease over the plan due to higher intersegment costs related to
the commercial eﬀort required, in line with the increased value of our advisory model,
including an upgraded role of our ﬁnancial advisers in a more eﬀective interaction with
customers to meet more complex needs. This segment is, and will continue to be, a
growth engine for the group, coordinating the ﬁnancial activities across all businesses and
strongly contributing to group revenues and proﬁtability, leveraging on products, people
and platform.
Moving to slide nine on insurance. We are targeting an average yearly increase in
segment revenues of 10%, thanks to a widened and enhanced product oﬀer, embedding
a diversiﬁcation between Life and Non-Life products with multi-class and capital-light
Class 1 policies as well as a comprehensive P&C oﬀer.
As Andrea and Guido mentioned earlier, we will take advantage from the new advisory
model, combining Life and P&C coverage to develop our approach to wealth
management, consistently with the features of our customer base. EBIT is forecast to
steadily grow from EUR 1 billion to EUR 1.3 billion in 2024, operating higher distribution
fees paid to the network, required by a renewed focus on advisory and commercial eﬀort
to send higher value-added Life insurance products.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Payments & Mobile on slide 10, we can see double-digit organic growth supported by
all product lines. Payments are at the core of the business, integrating unrivaled post
oﬃce, digital channel and third-party networks as well as value-added products. As a
result, we expect payment revenues to double over the plan.
Even in a highly competitive market, our telco revenues continue to grow, supported by
the enlarged loyal customer base and the upcoming telco oﬀer on ﬁber. As Marco said,
we will enter the energy market to further widen our range of products and services. The
one-stop shop experience, leveraging strong customer trust, will support the growth of
this segment as well as the group omnichannel strategy.
EBIT is expected to grow by a strong 10%, more than oﬀsetting the structural decline of
traditional payments, such as payment slips and the start-up cost of our new energy
business. We expect that the energy business will positively contribute to EBIT from 2025.
The proﬁt margin will increase from 23% to 26% based on the current business. Including
the new energy business start-up, EBIT margin will reach 20% in 2024.
Moving on to slide 12. The revenues are expected to continue to grow steadily over the
plan to reach EUR 12.7 billion in 2024, with a positive contribution from all business
segments. Mail, Parcel & Distribution revenues will increase, thanks to the consolidation of
Nexive and the continued growth of Parcels, contributing with EUR 0.7 billion to group
revenues.
Within Payments & Mobile segment, we project the new energy business to generate EUR
0.4 billion in revenues, on top of the signiﬁcant contribution from payments and telco of
almost EUR 0.5 billion. In Financial & Insurance services, we will more than oﬀset the
declining investment portfolio contribution with higher revenues from investment
Page 29 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

products distribution, as well as loan and mortgage distribution fees and the signiﬁcant
expansion of our P&C business.
It's worth mentioning that the revenue composition that we are targeting envisages a
changed mix, with a well-diversiﬁed business increasingly exposed to growing markets
and new businesses. In particular, the share of revenues related to growing markets will
increase to 42% as we will be building upon emerging trends and business expansion,
ensuring long-term sustainability. As we prioritize investments and constantly search for
attractive emerging opportunities, we expect at least 4% of our revenues in 2024 to come
from new businesses.
On slide 13, we can see the evolution of our operating proﬁt over the next four years. We
envisage an ambitious EBIT growth of EUR 0.7 billion, with all business segments
delivering positive contribution. As we mentioned previously we expect Mail, Parcel &
Distribution to reach a historical breakeven in 2024, with Mail & Parcel, adding EUR 0.3
billion to EBIT increase and Distribution contributing additional EUR 0.2 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Within Payments & Mobile, we project payments and telco positively contributing to EBIT
increase by EUR 0.1 billion, while the new energy business will be at breakeven. In
Financial & Insurance services, we will oﬀset the decline in investment portfolio
contribution and higher distribution costs with higher revenues, as discussed in the
previous slide.
Moving to slide 15, where we discuss the evolution of group workforce. The number of
FTAs will decrease, on average, by about 9,000 people over the plan and will be the key
driver of labor cost reduction. As you can see from the slide, it is impressive, our ability to
eﬀectively manage our workforce over time and in a socially responsible way. The
decrease will be driven by the natural demographics of our workforce, the nonrenewal of
ﬁxed-term contracts and the subsidized exits.
Let's realize that in 2022, we expect to reach 120,000 FTEs, overachieving the Deliver22
original target by 3,000 FTEs. We continue to see an increase in the value-added per
employee, from EUR 60,000 in 2017 to EUR 64,000 in 2020, despite the eﬀects of the
pandemic, and EUR 77,000 per FTE in 2024 as a result of continuous productivity
enhancement.
On slide 16, you can see the results of our strategy to manage HR costs. Provisions for
early retirement incentives will be down, from EUR 0.4 billion in 2020 decreasing to EUR
0.1 billion in 2024, while embedding the restructuring related to accelerated esubstitution and Nexive.
Ordinary HR costs will amount to EUR 5.4 billion in 2024, from EUR 5.6 billion in 2019,
while 2020 is not a proper reference as it beneﬁts from a number of positive one-oﬀ
items. The most signiﬁcant indicator is the ordinary HR costs on revenues, which will go
down from 50% to 43% in 2024, conﬁrming our focus on growing the business.

Page 30 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

On slide 17, we discuss non-HR costs. COGS are expected to increase in order to support
all business segments over the plan, mostly related to parcel and payment services, with
higher D&A are related to increased investments to ﬁnance the business transformation. It
is important to ﬂag that over the plan, the ratio between variable costs related to business
volumes and related variable revenues will steadily decrease from 79% in 2019 to 67% in
2024, highlighting eﬃciency gains, which we plan to achieve. The ratio between total
ﬁxed COGS and revenues will also decline by 8percentage points to 53% in 2024.
Turning to slide 19. The group will grow shareholders' equity over the plan. Each business
is suﬃciently capitalized and will contribute to our generous dividend policy, achieving an
even stronger balance sheet in 2024 with an eﬃcient group capital structure.
Let's now move to slide 20, where we focus on the net ﬁnancial position of the segment
Mail, Parcel & Distribution. As you can see, our net ﬁnancial position remains steady over
the plan, ﬁnancing a signiﬁcant CapEx plan and a generous and competitive dividend
policy.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to increase our capital expenditure in key areas of development to support
transformation over the business plan. The accumulated amount of CapEx comes to a
record high of EUR 3.1 billion, with a diverse investment mix across all segments. We are
showing here the key areas of focus, and let me underline that more than 60% of the
initiatives and investments are ESG related.
Our strategic CapEx priorities will reﬂect the ambitious business development plan that
you've heard so far. The funding for each product is discussed and deﬁned on a case-bycase basis by a Special Investment Committee that takes into consideration the strategic
alignment, economic return on investment and risk associated. To evaluate the impact of
each investment, we use traditional ﬁnancial indicators as well as the ESG criteria, such as
True Value. All our projects are moving towards paperless standards.
Turning to slide 22. We continue to invest and forge relationships with several partners to
boost growth across all our segments. In this slide, you can ﬁnd an overview of our group
key strategic shareholdings that will support us in pursuing and delivering our business
targets. At the same time, they represent the ﬁnancial lever that strengthens our ﬂexibility
and optionality during the plan, allowing us to respond promptly to emerging business
opportunities.
Our plan is based on conservative assumptions for each of our business segments, which
make our targets achievable. All segments will contribute to the positive progression
operating proﬁtability, while our approach to cost discipline will be matched with the
evolution of the business. Our capital is eﬃciently allocated across our segments,
focusing on the ones which represent the most interesting business opportunities.
Lastly, we have a range of ﬁnancial holdings, which give us a signiﬁcant exposure to
disruptive businesses and signiﬁcantly contribute to our value chain, while embedding
material ﬁnancial upside. As we showed throughout the presentation today we are fully

Page 31 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

committed to delivering responsible growth and a greener future to all our stakeholders.
Let's now have a look at our video showcasing our ESG approach.
(Presentation)

FINAL

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

So moving to the ﬁnal remarks. We are proud to say that all market trends and business
trends embedded in our previous plan, Deliver 2022, are conﬁrmed in our new plan. We
were indeed right in setting our strategy then at the time, and we're now even more
conﬁdent that our new plan is ready to capture all opportunities that will arise in the next
years.
We start from a wide and loyal client base of 35 million Italians, which we engaged via our
omnichannel platform with 11 million daily interactions, as we have seen. We are focused
on delivering a sustainable strategy as a data-driven and tech-enabled company, which
will translate in a strong and sustainable growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Four years into the job, I can say that we have a very solid experience and commitment -committed management team that is working with common targets and a common sense
of purpose. Our investors will be rewarded with a generous and competitive dividend
policy. Just keep watching.
And to make our promise more credible, we have directly aligned management
remuneration to company performance. Our reward strategy supports long-term interest
and create sustainable value for stakeholders. Performance measures are set at
challenging levels, whereby their achievements ensures self-ﬁnancing of MBOs and longterm incentive schemes.
The long-term incentive payout provides for up to nine years' performance, the federal
and retention periods. All components of our variable incentive plan are subject to strict
malus and clawback provisions, with performance measures linked to ESGs, KPIs and
long-term incentives entirely paid in shares.
We commit to the highest level of transparency, and we reward our people based on
results, inclusivity and adopt appropriate pay practices to attract and retain best talent
and drive innovation. Talking about talent, (Speaking via interpreter).

Unidentiﬁed Speaker
(Interpreted) And speaking of talent, I would love to (inaudible) the colleagues who were
(inaudible) how proud they were in working for our business (inaudible) making eﬃcient
of our services that are possible. So (inaudible) they have done.

Questions And Answers
Page 32 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

(Speaking via interpreter) Rigoberto [ph].

FINAL

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
So my question for (inaudible) a good revenue overall. But (inaudible) also growing to
support revenues. I just wanted to make sure (inaudible) on the revenue side. Do you
have any contingency plan on how you can cut the cost base? So you did very well in
2020. I was wondering (inaudible) if you need to track more proﬁt (inaudible).
And the second one is I think that the dividend policy has been attractive. You raised the
bar. You're (inaudible) to an absolute level of dividend, which is pretty unique. So at this
point, again is there anything that you read, anything that can go wrong in (inaudible).
Then on a separate level, what should be the base or division that represents a lower GDP
in your (inaudible) plan in 2022. Can you elaborate to the Street why this is a lower
(inaudible) achieve. Thank you.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Yes. Thank you. Okay. Thank you for the questions. Yes. I mean compared to
Deliver22, this is a plan where we are committing to more revenues. So you have a
revenue growth, which is signiﬁcantly higher than the previous plan, because we had the
time to plant the seeds and drive this big company towards future businesses. Therefore,
we are in a position of committing to growth more than we were three years ago.
If growth should not come along as anticipated, I think the best the protection we have is
on the CFO presentation on page 17. We are showing that we have a component of our
cost base, which is, on one hand, going down in terms of the ﬁxed cost over the plan, and
this is helping in any scenario.
But if you look at the ﬁrst line, we're showing the variable cost percentage over the
revenues coming from the base that, of course that is variable. It's going down, from 79%
to 67%, which means that you will see -- in the case of having been a bit too optimistic on
the revenue side, you will see lower cost to protect our margins.
On the dividend policy, I think it's relatively simple what we're doing here. We spent the
last three years with a plus 5% per annum of ﬁxed dividend, ﬁxed growth. We're now
launching a new plan. We were in a 50% or even below 50% payout. We had committed
in '18 to be at 60% payout. So we re-benchmarked ourselves at 60%, which means, for
2021, EUR 0.55, which is equivalent to a 60% payout.
Then looking at the growth in terms of net proﬁt that the company is building. Over the
course of the plan, we go back from 2022 onwards to a ﬁxed growth, 6% per annum
dividend policy, which, so far, has made investors happy and has allowed us also to be
considered by many investors globally that clearly wants consistency in the dividend.

Page 33 of 49



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

Risk in the plan related to the dividend. We have proven, even 2020, that we are resilient.
We have distributable reserves to face the things, like what happened last year, from a
regulatory standpoint. The mix of the subsidiary of the holding group that are paying
dividend to Poste Italiane, that is paying it to you, to the market, is changing. By the end of
the plan, Postepay will contribute 25% of the dividend. So it's -- I think it's a diversiﬁed
business that is supporting a very solid dividend policy that starting from a 60% payout
ratio is allowing us also to, over time, monitor our level of competitiveness versus our
broad peer group in terms of dividend yield. So we want our investors to be very happy
with the dividend even though we are starting to show that this company is a company
that can produce growth. So this is the plan.
If you allow me, of transition, we started from a leverage plan in 2018. We're in transition
and maybe the next plan will be more of a growth plan in a more meaningful way.
The last question, I think is the Mail, Parcel & Distribution EBIT target, 2022 versus deliver - versus the previous plan. On this question, I would like maybe Massimo to give more …

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The plan is EUR 0.2 billion EBIT level in 2022. Two main events have changed our
numbers versus the previous plan; COVID and the acquisition of Nexi. COVID has
accelerated the mix change, and for this reason, we have to adapt our network with
additional restructuring and investments. And as I said during my presentation, Nexi
acquisition will have a positive eﬀect. But obviously we need additional costs in 2021 and
2022 to integrate the two companies. So moreover, the additional revenues of Nexi will
not compensate the mail revenue decrease with a net eﬀect of about EUR 50 million.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question comes from Manuela Meroni, Banca IMI.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

The ﬁrst question is on mail and parcel (inaudible) more on the markets from parcel
business and (inaudible) I guess (inaudible) due to the addition of (inaudible) and the
parcel business around (inaudible) and where do you expect (inaudible) market share,
where the market share coming from and (inaudible) considering (inaudible) assumption.
And again (inaudible) and that is (inaudible).
The second question is on the (inaudible). Thank you for (inaudible) activity of (inaudible)
space. Is it fair to assume that (inaudible) your services net interest income (inaudible)
capital gains remains the same in (inaudible) scenario. So I'm wondering if you are ready
to realize more capital gains. Could the results of other Financial Services activities be
weaker than you expected?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Manuela. Okay. I'm afraid that the line was a bit -- the line was not perfect. And
looking at the expression of my colleagues, I will start with the ﬁrst question and then let
Page 34 of 49



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

maybe Massi ﬁnalize on mail and parcel. And Guido if you -- yes, mail and parcel, where is
the growth coming from? The reality is that Poste Italiane, in 2016, '17, was the number
seven logistic parcel operator in Italy. So we had the French, German, two Americans, one
Brit ahead of us in 2016, '17. Now we're number two overall, and we're number one in
B2C. So in three years, we entered the game. The game, we entered through B2C
because clearly, we leverage on our Joint Delivery Model. This was clearly the fastgrowing portion of the market and this was win that -- as we said, was a trend that we saw
and we follow.
Now as Massimo has stated very clearly, now that we're in the market, we need to create
more margins to become a long-term, sustainable, logistic operator. And he focused in
his presentation, and we are focusing over the plan on, obviously B2B. B2 billion is not a
market that is growing. It's stable. But now that we are in -- on the ground, we are
targeting a growth of 3% of market share in B2 billion from 10% to 13%. This is possible
because many clients are looking at broad logistic services.

Bloomberg Transcript

Think about the retailer, the large retailer. He was -- up to ﬁve years ago, he was only
selling in his shop. So he was getting B2 billion logistics services from the market. Today
when you oﬀer B2B, he tells you, look, I have a Web site. I want you to do also the B2C.
Can you oﬀer both? Then he tells you, oh look, the portion of what I sell is closing. So I
need the reverse service. Can you oﬀer reverse in your B2C because my clients might buy
online and they want to ship it back?
So at that point, with the leadership in B2C, which is made of many things -- I mentioned
reverse. We have, by far, the largest reverse. That's why we became exclusive of Zalando
for our reverse capabilities that are obviously unmatched in Italy. Then oﬀering all these
products, you have a much larger chance of winning the B2B, which -- otherwise, logistics
is a very sticky business. Clients tend to stay with the provider if they're happy.
The other element where we are growing and we're planning to grow is C2X. We have
already a large market share, around 45%. We want to increase it to -- sorry, 41% to 57%,
yes, exactly. We have seen the video. We're planning to do this. We launched last year a
new product. We believe that we will deﬁne a bit that market because once you give the
oﬀer and the opportunity, the product to clients to send easily from home without a single
piece of paper, all in an app with your code or going with a box that you don't even have
to wait in terms of putting it on a machine. You just drop it at the next tobacconist or
PuntoPoste or post oﬃce. You have already paid on your app. That will create more
demand for this product. So it's not only growing on a deﬁned market in terms of market
share, but I think the pie will get larger. Please, Massi, on -- I believe the breakeven on …

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Yes. It's probably -- your question, if I got it correctly, was about the trend in mail over the
plan compared to our previous expectations. So you remember correctly that over -- in
the past plan, we were envisaging a decline of 5% on a yearly basis over the plan. We are
now envisaging a decline of 7%. By the way this means more or less that we have lost kind
of two years due to COVID, to give you an idea.

Page 35 of 49



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

So we -- I think we should take into consideration that -- I mean as we already -- have
already mentioned during our Fourth Quarter results, half of the revenues we have lost in
2020 were lost temporarily. So we're going to recover half of the loss in '21 and '22. This is
also to be considered when thinking about our new projection of minus 7% plus consider
that the mix that we have in terms of the products is a bit diﬀerent compared to our
competitors. So the share of our recordable [ph], if you want mass mail delivery, is a bit
lower in our case. So we're relying more on higher-margin products, which has also an
impact on the revenue trend. Plus this is related to volumes.
In terms of the pricing, we can envisage -- we are envisaging over the plan some repricing
according to the regulation and the Universal Service Obligation. I mean -- and the last
element I would mention, as Massimo was already commenting in his presentation that
the competitive context is slightly diﬀerent compared to the past. We have already been
facing a highly competitive environment, which is probably easing going forward.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Guido.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yes. On the Financial Services, if I understand correctly the question, which was -- is it -are you going to use capital gains should you not achieve your commercial results? Well
ﬁrst of all, I want to reiterate that our targets are ambitious, totally ambitious but certainly
achievable. So we're very comfortable on that. If I can take you through page 18 and then
page 17 of my presentation, I'll try to stress what we said at the bottom of this page, where
we said that we have -- we don't foresee rates to come signiﬁcantly down from here. We
see that the rate scenario to be at a place where rates should not come down further. But
should it come further, we show, in the previous page, that we always have very signiﬁcant
capital gains. So we look at the portfolio and the yield of the portfolio rather than mixing
the two, the commercial side and the management side of BTP portfolio.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

The next question comes from Azzurra Guelﬁ from Citi.

Q - Azzurra Guelﬁ

{BIO 6148923 <GO>}

I have a couple of questions. One is on your postal saving distribution agreement. You
mentioned in the slide it's still underway. But can you provide us some color on what are
the assumptions that you made in the plan to make the forecast both in terms of those
and in terms of revenue?
The second one is on the energy, the new energy business that you're planning to
develop later on in the plan. Can you elaborate what are the main driver and the
assumption for the revenue growth that you expect? And if you can -- if the environment
changes, if there is any change, how you can modulate investment over the period of
time.

Page 36 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

And the last one is on the ESG. I've seen and appreciated the slide with the new ESG
target. I just wanted to ask how are you going to monitor this progress on ESG. Is it at
divisional level? Is it the overall management team, at level of the Board? But basically a
little more information on the control of the ESG target.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

(inaudible) Was the ﬁrst question related to the CDP agreement? Did we get it correctly?

Q - Azzurra Guelﬁ

{BIO 6148923 <GO>}

Yes, on the postal saving agreement.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We couldn't get the ﬁrst question. I'll start with the last one on ESG. The control of ESG is
done -- starting from the top is the Board that has created an ESG board, sub-board unit
made of three Board members that is in charge formally for the Board of Directors to
monitor all the ESG targets, the achievements and progress. Coming down from the
Board, we have a company-wide team coordinated by our corporate aﬀairs that is
following on a very systematic way the progresses. And as you know, in that space, you
can only do it if you rely on external certiﬁcation units or entities that are coming, looking
very deep into the way you're actually measuring your targets and then they release or
not release your certiﬁcates of achievements of your ESG.
And we mentioned -- I mentioned in my presentation the science-based target, that
methodology that we started using already a few years ago, and they're certifying our
processes and also the smart technology, which is another system of doing control on our
progresses.
On the energy …

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

We got the ﬁrst question in writing. Thank you, Azzurra. It was about the hypothesis with
regard to the postal distribution -- of the saving distribution agreement. The last one was
on the growth trajectory in the energy market there.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I mean on the postal, it's kind of a neutral assumption. We're setting slightly lower target
than what we achieved in 2020. I think this has been going on for now 100 years, postal
savings, and it's not a few weeks that will change. Everybody is extremely busy these days.
We will sign the agreement. The EUR 1.8 billion or thereabout is in line with market
standards and what the law is actually saying that the distributor is expected to be paid
for market services.
The second question on energy was -- Marco, you got it?

Page 37 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

A - Marco Siracusano

{BIO 20101643 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Please.

A - Marco Siracusano

{BIO 20101643 <GO>}

We started to enter into the energy market in view of the complete liberalization of the
market by 2023. We decided to do it in 2022 in order to prepare our plan. But you have
to consider that we decided to have a platform business because we would like to
capitalize around our platform, quite unique in terms of customer base, in terms of
integrated oﬀer mainly of all needs to consider telco plus energy. It's also capitalizing
around our unrivaled and trusted physical network, also about our advanced digital
channels. So we think that there is an ambitious target but achievable only by Poste
Italiane for this.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Gian Luca Ferrari from Mediobanca.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
I have a couple of questions. The ﬁrst one is for Massimo. On the EUR 1.3 billion
(inaudible) revenues in 2021, it seems that the implied growth rate is something like plus
12%, plus 15% year-on-year. Even assuming that all the other segments will not grow, B2C
is around plus 25%, so back to the pre-COVID levels. In reality, we are still in a lockdown
mode. So I was wondering, what are the assumptions behind for 2021 with particular
reference to B2C?
The second is probably more for Guido on BancoPosta, and it's twofold. The ﬁrst one is
on the strategy on asset management. I appreciate the presentation on the wealth
management opportunities. I was wondering on the product side, what is the strategy.
You are now selling third-party products together with BancoPosta SGR funds. Given that
the scale is growing fast, are you considering sub-delegate kind of agreements or the
launch of thematic funds directly managed with advisory of third parties or any potential
change in the product strategy here?
And last but not least, still on BancoPosta, I didn't hear anything about SMEs. Is that a
segment you want to exploit and to develop during the plan?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Massimo, you want to take the ﬁrst question, please?

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Yes. For the ﬁrst question, the B2C market. We are -- our forecast is to -- that the market
will increase in revenues of about 20%. We will improve our market share during the plan
Page 38 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

horizon, reaching the market share of about 38% and -- but the most important challenge
on B2C for us is to extract more value because now we are the leader, as mentioned by
Matteo, and now we have to improve our proﬁtability and the -- this target -- we will reach
this target through a clear management of our tariﬀ and with the reduction plan in terms
of cost that I described during my presentation. So the market share of B2C in a growing
market will grow with a more perfect ability.
Please Guido.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Two points. One on asset management. I think we tried to be as clear as possible in
Matteo and Andrea and my own presentation on what would be the focus for us in asset
management. Were planning a very signiﬁcant growth. Our TFA [ph] grew by 45 billion
and we are assuming that most of this growth will be in investments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Were saying that we have a lot of liquidity sitting on our accounts. Were planning those
accounts to be pretty much ﬂat throughout the plan. So it means that the new installs will
be in the interest of clients, directly to investments and savings. Savings mainly postal
bonds. Investments is mostly if -- practically everything on insurance investment products.
Out of that, the vastest majority is multi-class.
So all of what you were saying in terms of actively managed projects are normally
embedded in the class 3 part of the multi-class product. We have initiatives and we have
small growth in asset managed products -- two asset managed products that added
accounts for just a couple of billion in the plan. Because, again the focus is its clear in the
insurance side.
Second point on SMEs. I think none of this number includes a growth in the SME. Its area
where the two of you -- two of us have talked about it in the past. I think there is a
potential there but still to be implemented.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

The next questions are from (inaudible) from (inaudible).

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
The ﬁrst one on ﬁnancial services, slide 17, you provided a sensitivity to the changing rates.
I read this right, based on the (inaudible) in the (inaudible) was about (inaudible). I mean
long end rising and the short term remaining basically stable. If these will lead to a
diﬀerent outcome in your sensitivity?
Second question, in the insurance, you are showing solid growth in the PNC (inaudible).
But can you maybe give a little bit more color on what is the penetration you’re assuming
for this product [ph]? And also if its in the long term, is there a particular reason why the
PNC revenues should be signiﬁcantly lower with the life insurance revenues in these
division [ph]? Maybe, I don’t know, the nature of the clients or other reasons.
Page 39 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

Then the last one on the dividend, you showed that you expect 2022, 2024 net proﬁt to
grow from EUR 1.3 to EUR 1.6 billion, so 11% CAGR, while you said that the dividend will
grow 6%. So is there any reason, maybe, just prudent to assume dividend growth in 2022,
24 to be lower versus the net income growth?

FINAL

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Okay. We set the dividend growth of 2022, 2023, and 2024 at 6% because we wanted this
growth to be inline with the net proﬁt growth. Okay? We (inaudible) that the roundings
[ph] and we are actually lending to a low (inaudible) from where we start in 2021, but it is
clear its in a bit of room for maneuver additional that, as I say that we want to keep before
remaining competitive in terms of (inaudible).
On ﬁnancial services, Guido please.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I will take you through page 18 of my presentation because I think that helps explaining
exactly what were trying to achieve here. So you said, what happens if the current moves
steepens instead of moving parallel? Well certainly, in that case, we would have a
reduction of the unrealized capital gains but this is, I think a good place to be. Because as
we tried to show on the right side of the presentation -- of this slide, page 18, in that case,
we have a lot of ﬂexibility to restructure part of our portfolio and therefore beneﬁt from
the steepening. In terms of NII rather unrealized capital gains.
Just to give you a concrete [ph] example, as we said several times, that we tend to buy
long-dated BTPs to take -- or we used to, especially when the spreads on the longer dated
BTPs was higher. We used to swap that to reduce the interest grade [ph] risk. This -- we’ve
done it in the past and we keep doing it.
The opportunity that gives us is that at the moment when we see that longer term rates go
higher, we can unwind the swap and therefore, keep the coupon of the BTP or we can just
sell the package and buy a new bond at a higher rate. So that is certainly an upside for us
in the rates environment. We have it both on the short end and on the long end.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

And the last question is on insurance that -- you remember the penetration and mix. Yes,
ﬁrst of all, we should bear in mind that the size of the non-motor P&C market is much
smaller compared to the life market in Italy because, as I said in my presentation, in Italy,
we have under-insurance compared to other European countries. So it's a market thing.
Then looking at us, we should also remember that we started in life insurance 20 years
ago and we became number one, whereas for the reasons we discussed in my
presentation, we have a fully ﬂedged P&C business basically now that we added motor
insurance to our range. Nevertheless, if you look at my presentation on page 14, we are
committing to increase signiﬁcantly the penetration of P&C products in the plan. Actually,
we are planning to more than double the penetration of those products. This is why, as

Page 40 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

you have seen, the contribution to both revenue and proﬁtability growth from P&C will
start to be more and more visible towards the end of our plan.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. The next questions are from Elena Perini, Banca IMI.

Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

Yes. My ﬁrst question is about the contribution of the motor business in terms of
premiums and revenues. If you can give us some color on this given that it's a new
business for full year.
Then the distribution revenues, your target of EUR 1.1 billion is included in the EUR 2.7
billion total revenue target of the insurance services. What is the split in terms of
distribution revenues between Life and non-Life?
And ﬁnally, talking about your target of assets under management of EUR 200 billion,
how much are you leveraging on the strategic partnership with Anima to reach it?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Would -- Andrea and then Guido?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

I think from motor, I would like, ﬁrst of all, to stress the fact that as you have seen on page
12 of my presentation, this is not a new product. This is a new service model, meaning that
we will add -- we are adding 6,000 salespeople on top of the 8,000 ﬁnancial advisers that
Guido presented and that this new service model will be initially underlying our motor
business. But in the future, they will be also helping the launch of the energy business and
other businesses in our group.
The second point I would like to stress, and this is the reason why we are not breaking
down the target of gross written premiums between motor and non-motor, is the fact that
motor insurance is not a stand-alone target for us. We don't want to become the leader in
motor insurance by entering this market. We want to enter this market because this is the
way for Italians to see us as a fully ﬂedged insurance company. And by selling motor
insurance, we believe that we will have increasing opportunities to cross-sell other Life
and non-Life insurance products.
The second question was on distribution revenues and the breakdown between Life and
non-Life. If I understood correctly the question, I think you have the answer on page 16 of
my presentation, where we provide the breakdown between Life and non-Life revenues.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

So on your second question on Anima contribution. I think I'll go back to what I was
saying before to Gian Luca, and I will point you to page 21. Again let's remember where
Page 41 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

Anima helps us. Anima helps us managing PosteVita reserves for the -- on the B2 billion
side. They are also partnering with us on some of the products we issue on the multi-class
and, in particular, obviously under Class 3. So these are the two areas where the
cooperation with them will continue. And let me remind you that we are also, in this
space, a controlled open platform. So we have a number of partners and we're trying to
keep picking the best partners for each speciﬁc product in the interest of clients.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. So the next questions have been submitted via our webcast form. So let me
read them for everybody.
Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Question number one, it feels like there is a lot of more
focus on growth versus cost restructuring. Would you agree? And if yes, what happens to
your proﬁt if the revenue growth doesn't come through? I.e., what levels do you have on
cost?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. I would leave this to the CFO. Please, Camillo.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Thank you, Ashik, for the question. I think that we partly answered to that question at the
beginning of this session, that it's important to underline that the majority of the cost
increase is related to variable costs, and there were some comments around that from
Matteo. But the other point that I wanted to add is that, as you've seen in two other
presentations, we are planning to have EUR 3.1 billion of capital expenditure over the life
of the plan. That translates into additional D&A over the plan. To the extent that there is a
sort of recessionary scenario, which we are not planning for, in which revenues don't
perform as we do, we'd also reduce CapEx accordingly.
I'd also like to elaborate on the part of the variable costs, where, yes, variable costs are
increasing, but they are increasing less than proportionate revenues over the plan, and
most of those costs are related to levers that we control. There is an important increase in
the past in related costs, which we also talked about in year-end results that continues
throughout the plan. And also, within payments and mobile, our new agreement with
Vodafone allows us to control the telecom costs, but there is a part of costs related to
transactions through other systems, which also translate into additional costs for us. So
yes, there are increased costs, but most of those costs are related to the revenues. If there
are no revenues, those costs will not materialize with additional comment around D&A,
which we would control by reducing CapEx as revenues do not materialize.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Question number two, what are the sensitivities to rising rates and total pricing rates to -on NII and capital gains?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}
Page 42 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

Please, Guido.

FINAL

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

I think we commented on (inaudible). We mentioned the ﬂexibility that we have. You've
seen in the quarter's presentation, not in this presentation, where we gave the sensitivities
on movements of both spread and rates. Current sensitivities on capital gain for rates is
about EUR 20 million per basis point. What I can add is that in -- again as we tried to do
on page 18, it's mentioned that -- the ﬂexibility and the upside that is embedded in this
plan given that we are assuming that the current rate basically doesn't move in the next
four years. Should it move, these are all opportunities for us to extract value from the
portfolio.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Question number three …

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Sorry. Maybe I can add that the sensitivity on capital gains is about EUR 20 million. The
sensitivity of rates on NII is about 3 million per basis point.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Question number three. You are including revenues from energy, motor and protection
business. How conﬁdent or conservative are you that the launch of this could work?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

That's a good question. I think I can let our distribution and our business people give a
more detailed answer. But maybe I think it's important to say that I've learned, over the
last four years, that this is a very organized company. This is to the credit of my
predecessor and my management team, the history of this company. So I've learned from
my team that if you don't plan, if you don't set targets, the machine doesn't react.
So we decided, with my management team, to set targets, which we consider are
achievable, but we also are aware that they have a content of challenge. There's no doubt
if we achieve what we said in our energy space, by the end of the plan, we will be, from
scratch, top ﬁve player in the country. So it's certainly an ambitious target. But we have
proven several segments that our client base -- and this was the core of my message
today our client base is very large, is very loyal, and we are becoming better and better at
giving to this client base the best services and the best products. So all the ingredients to
reach those targets are truly there. And as you -- on the motor component and the P&C
component, I can add that as Andrea Novelli anticipated, the modular platform to
distribute P&C has started 2021 with the right foot.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. So next question on HR and D&A, non-HR and D&A costs. You look to be very
conservative as we expect an increase of some EUR 0.9 billion over the plan. Can you

Page 43 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

please give more color on that?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you. I think we already answered that. (inaudible) …

FINAL

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

HR or non-HR?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Non-HR and D&A costs over the plan.

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Well on non-HR, we talked about it a few minutes ago. I think that we feel that the
cost that we are putting forward are consistent with the ambitions that we have laid out for
you guys. To the extent that revenues do not materialize, we are very conﬁdent that, as we
have shown in the past, we'll have to control those costs in a way that we protect
proﬁtability.
On CapEx, also, we talked about that before. It is an ambitious plan, EUR 3.1 billion. It's, on
average, EUR 750 million a year over the next four years and is in excess of what the
group has spent in the past, but we believe it is appropriate given the EUR 2.2 billion net
growth in revenues that we are planning. To the extent that those revenues don't
materialize, on CapEx too, we would control. Just as an example, in 2020, we reduced the
number vis-a-vis with what was the original target for the year.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next set of questions come from Anna Maria Benassi. First one is on CDP
contract negotiations underway that -- due to its EUR 1.8 billion fees. How can you be so
conﬁdent on such a level?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think we've already answered. I mean it's really business as usual. Personally, I've been
following this relationship, this agreement since 1997 when I basically contributed to
building the model that has been used to price postal bonds. So it's tight.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Question number two is on the impressive growth targets in the P&C. What is diﬀerent
today compared with three years ago? And can you explain this renewed output and
ambition?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Andrea, can you elaborate?

Page 44 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

FINAL

Sure. We have in part already answered the question. Maybe I would like also to add the
fact that we are talking about a EUR 40 billion market if you combine motor and nonmotor insurance. Our target is to get to EUR 1.5 billion at the end of the plan. So it's
ambitious but we believe it's realistic if -- even if you compare that with the ambition set
by others in the market.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is about ESG. Can you share with us how does management
remuneration is linked to ESG achievement and the same achievement same from
achievements on business plan targets?
If I may we probably answered with your last concluding remarks …

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

With a slide, walked on the conclusion where you have -- or you explained that 40% of
short-term incentives and 20% of long-term incentive, ESG-related. On page two of your
conclusions, we already -- we gave further details. In terms of ESG as well, I think that we
have a thorough plan. I mean we summarized a set of the targets, which give you an idea
of how ESG is intertwined in our business as usual. If you want, we can kind of look
further.
So you mentioned potential real estate disposals. Could you kindly give us a sense of the
size of the target?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Camillo?

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Yes. So we have been sharing with you information around the fact that we are monitoring
the value of our real estate portfolio. It is something which we are working. But for
cautiousness, we have not yet included in the plan -- concrete disposals is something
which we will update you as things progress. However worthwhile sharing that despite we
do not have in the plan concrete disposals, we are working at reengineering what we
have. As an example, PosteVita is due to move to a premise which belongs to Poste, and
that translates into a EUR 5 million save on the P&L of the group on a yearly basis. So
we're not only thinking about disposing the portfolio but also about optimizing what we
have to ensure that we translate this into concrete savings in our P&L.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Page 45 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

Last question from Anna Maria. You target gender equality, but there's only men on the
stage. You are all talented managers, but I hope to see also women in the next
presentation.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Andrea, Guido?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yes. I will. What I can say is what was in …

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thirteen.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yes. Page 13, yes. You're right. We are all men on this -- in here, but we are a very diverse
company. And as I said in my presentation on the ﬁnancial adviser side, 70% are women,
and a vast majority of the managers there, not just in the ranks but also the managers are - and vast majority are women. So we -- I think among the Italian company, we are one of
the most diverse ones.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. And let's move Anna Maria aside. The next question is from Alberto Villa,
Intermonte. On insurance EBIT target, EUR 1.3 billion in 2024 implies EUR 300 million
improvement versus '19 and '20 and EUR 1 billion versus '20. This seems to be coming
almost entirely from P&C technical margin. Does it imply EBIT -- Life EBIT will stay pretty
stable over the next four years?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Please, Andrea.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Okay. So both Life and non-Life will contribute to the improvement of EBIT. You are right
to say and I mentioned that also in my presentation that non-Life will be the fastestgrowing in terms of contribution. This is also due to the fact that, as I mentioned in my
presentation, we are envisaging higher distribution fees paid to the network to
remunerate the increased advisory eﬀort, and this will happen in particular in the Life
business rather than the non-Life business.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

The next two questions are from John Badilatti [ph] and (inaudible). Thanks for following
us from the States at this time. Poste has presented very exciting revenue opportunities
across all of your businesses. However what about getting the most out of the (inaudible)
operating leverage in your businesses?
Page 46 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

And the next question is (inaudible) …

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. No. That's the point we have over the last few years, overperformed our
leverage commitments. We think that we can at least do what we have presented today.
Obviously our management team is here to do better.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

The last question is from John [ph] related to that. What are the key initiatives where you
see the highest potential for over-delivery over the life cycle of the new plan?
I think you already answered this. Do you want to comment on that?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good question. I think one area of overperformance is the ﬂip side of the weaker NII that
we have presented today. I think Guido expressed very clearly the conservative
assumptions that are behind that drop in NII. So that's clearly an upside potentially in
terms of bottom line. From a business standpoint, I think that the area where we could be
-- to try to deal, I think in the ﬁnancial space, in the ﬁnancial product space, broadly
deﬁned where we keep, I think growing our franchise in a remarkable way. So I think the
loan distribution, you've seen the product mix with managed asset growing fast, and it
was growing faster than we anticipated in 2018 in the last couple of years. So that's an
area where -- and certainly, as it was pointed out in the ﬁrst question by Gian Luca Ferrari
on -- maybe on parcel. Let's try to be a bit more optimistic.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next two questions are from Fabrizio Bernardi, Bestinver. So in the
previous plan, the mail and parcel division was expected to almost breakeven at EBIT
level in 2022 with EUR 3.5 billion of revenues. Now we expect to breakeven in 2024 with
EUR 3.7 billion of revenues, mail and parcel revenues up EUR 0.2 billion to EUR 1.5 billion
and including next year. Would you share with us the trends in that -- in the new -- in this
new target versus the previous one?
I think we have already commented on that, if you agree with me. If you need any further
detail, Fabrizio, feel free to contact me.
The second one is from Fabrizio. As for the Financial Services division, the contribution
from asset management remains really marginal at EUR 0.1 billion revenues since -- in '19
versus 2024 despite TFAs growing remarkably. Given the stake you had in Anima, I was
wondering why you did not explore to this level much more.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think we've answered it. It was exactly the same question.

Page 47 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Yes, exactly.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

(inaudible).

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. Yes. Fabrizio, we talked to these questions pretty early this morning.
The last question is from Salvatore Cirino from Pramerica. Under which conditions you will
be able to get earlier at the breakeven in mail and parcel? And how much growth
potential you see in the division after 2025?
And the second question, let me read a few of them. There might be some connection. It
looks to me that the plan has been based on pretty conservative assumptions given that
despite a good revenue growth in the ﬁnancial division, payment and insurance, you've
just assumed EUR 0.2 billion of additional EBIT from this. But this is because you assume
EUR 1 billion of additional non-HR costs. How much conservative is this target.
The last question is about EBIT in 2024. Can you -- can we assume that EBIT in 2024 is a
ﬂoor?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

It's been answered.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Yes. I think on the ﬁrst question, we have already had some color both on the breakeven
and on the potential upside to see proﬁtable business starting from 2025.
In terms of non-HR costs, I think that Camillo has already provided you with some color on
the variable component and on the way we used to set our targets.
And on the last point, EBIT 2024, EBIT ﬂoor, Matteo, will you comment on that?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

It's hard to say today in 2021 that what we're targeting for 2024 is a ﬂoor. So I mean let's
go through the motions.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

That was all on our side.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}
Page 48 of 49



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-03-19

FINAL

Yes. I think probably the follow-up on ESG and the Board that I mentioned, we have
speciﬁcally a committee which is in charge of ESG.
That committee, by the way is chaired by a woman, the same way that the whole Board of
Poste Italiane is chaired by Bianca Farnia, so very important person in our company, a
woman. We have two more women. So we have basically four out of nine representation
in the Board. The committee in terms of ESG has the full responsibility to monitor the
progress of our ESG activities.
So I thank all of you for the time you allocated to Poste Italiane today.
Obviously we will now be on the road virtually. Happy to answer more detailed questions
in the next two weeks. Thank you very much.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 49 of 49

