Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Becker-Hussong, Head, Investor & Rating Agency Relations
Christoph Jurecka, Chiuef Financial Officer
Joachim Wenning, Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Iain Pearce , Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst
Unidentified Participant
Vikram Gandhi, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Munich Re Analysts and Investors call on Annual Results
and January Renewals. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to
turn the conference over to Mr. Becker-Hussong. Please go ahead, Sir.

Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our call on our full
year 2020 earnings release, including 1/1 renewals and the outlook for 2021. I have the
pleasure to be here with Joachim Wenning, our CEO; and Christoph Jurecka, our CFO
and both gentlemen will kick it off with their statements and afterwards, we will go right
into Q&A. And we have ample opportunity to answer your questions. So, I suggest
Joachim, the floor is yours.

Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Christian, and good afternoon everybody out there. Thanks for
joining this conference. As said Christoph and I would like to report the final figures 2020,
the outlook 2021 and again highlight one of the other essentials of our ambition 2025.

Page 1 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

To start with the corona pandemic has had no doubt a decisive impact on 2020. But also
without any doubt in the absence of Corona today, we would have celebrated an
excellent business result. And despite COVID-related losses of around EUR3.5 billion, we
closed the year with a profit of EUR1.2 billion and despite the very material COVID-19
losses, despite the further drop in interest rates and despite significant business growth
also requiring capital of course.
We closed the year with a solvency ratio of 208% in the upper-quarter of our optimal
range that you know. And subject to the approval of the AGM later in May -- sorry in April,
we will pay a dividend of EUR9.80 per share unchanged from the previous year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We, as you know, have been keeping our dividend promise now for more than 50 years,
even in challenging years without any one exception to-date and we don't want to change
that. Looking back, we have delivered on our mid-term ambition 2020 and also
successfully mastered the three year period 2018, 2019, 2020 and I may add despite
quite some challenges in that period like falling interest rates, above average large losses
and barely any significant tailwind from the P&C rate cycle, because P&C rates really only
started going up more broadly since last year only in 2020.
So overall, our success was driven by good growth and good earnings and reinsurance,
the turnaround of ERGO and savings. Every year, if you look on Slide five. Every year we
reported on how natural catastrophes, are developing in our most recent report on the
year 2020, we again highlighted that climate change is coming with ever higher costs.
Weather-related natural catastrophes become more frequent and more severe and this
context, we are a proven partner of our clients with expertise and in many cases large or
even very large insurance capacities.
The message that we would like to add again now today is that -- in addition to all that
with our climate ambition announced two months ago, we are also committing ourselves
to targets in-line with the Paris agreement. Our targets are science-based, they are very
concrete, they are binding, and they are measurable, just to recall, we are committed to
net zero without exception in all areas. So firstly, on the investment side and not only net
zero in 2050, we commit to five-year milestones. The next one in 2025, we will have
reduced our carbon footprint by at least 25% maybe slightly below 30%.
Secondly that ambition is the same on the liability side, net zero by 2050. Of course, but
we will be out of thermal coal business already by 2040 and that business footprint, we
will already reduced by 35% points in the five years to come. And also with regard to oil
and gas, we start reducing that footprint by 5% at a lower pace because systemically
these energy sources are still very important as science suggests. So the -- you will see,
we will be out of the business with explorers and producers of fossil energies at the latest
by the point in time when science suggest that those fossil energies are no longer
compatible with Paris 2050.
So we hope that this good example is a good example for other industries and
companies to follow for the sake of climate change or climate protection. And thirdly, of
course, we also have a net-zero ambition with regard to our own emissions from buildings

Page 2 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

and from traveling, et cetera. We have reduced that dramatically already in the last 10
years by little less than 50% CO2 emission per person, we're going to reduce it by
another 12% in the five years to come, we will be net-zero by 2030.
Let's move on a systemic risk like COVID-19 poses many challenges to risk management.
Of course, because too much of this risk can be poison and undigestible but also to
business continuity. And with regard to both aspects, we can be very satisfied with how
we have dealt with the pandemic, although the COVID-19 losses are material for the
whole industry, including ourselves, they are well manageable and they are digestible and
at no point, they have weakened our capital strength, so that not only we pay a dividend,
but also benefit from current growth opportunities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me move on to the 1/1 renewal in reinsurance, we have taken the opportunity of the
hardening market to grow further in P&C. Prices have increased, as you know, riskadjusted so margin improving by 2.4% in 2020 and in 2019 January renewals, those rate
increases were then only 1.2% or 0%. So you see the trend increase in the rate
development and we seen the strongest increase in the Property XL business and nonproportional property business,, as well as in particularly loss affected businesses, in these
areas often double-digit and in some cases with very large capacities, deeply into doubledigit increases. In all other areas, I would say across the board, single-digit rate increases.
And as planned, we seize this opportunity and we're able to expand our business by
10.9% in terms of premiums, so that we can see, -- we are -- say we are really pleased
with a really good renewal which fully supports the target combined ratio, as we have
communicated it for this year 2021.
And if you allow [ph] me the outlook for the one for 1/4 renewal and the 1/7 renewal this
year should be even better because those renewals typically, our nat cat heavier, but we
will see when we come there. Slide eight shows the regions and the lines of businesses
and how they have seen rate changes and how we could leverage these rate changes for
business growth. I think what becomes obvious is that in no region and in no line of
business, have we seen any rate deteriorations. This is different from previous years and
to us this is another good sign of markets hardening.
With regards to investments, Christoph is going to give you some more details in a
moment. However, I'd like to just take this opportunity to reiterate that not only was the
2020 investment result very pleasing with the return on investment of 3% and a difficult
years with ups and downs. But also, I'd like to reiterate that investment strategy in place
has the power to partially counterbalance the yield erosion, which is the consequence of
declining interest rates, while we are not increasing our appetite for market risk.
All in all, the path we took three years ago has had a very positive impact on our total
shareholder return. In the three years since 2018, the TSR has increased by more than
50% and compared to our peers this was hers [ph] best. We will work hard that the five
years ahead of us, will hopefully look similarly positive. And then you have this Slides 11, 12
and 13 in your deck, which are repetition, if you like from our investor day presentation last
December. What they're are saying in summary is, at this year 2021, the expectation of
delivering at EUR2.8 billion result means that we will be already back at the pre-corona
earnings level this year. We will maintain our capital strength we have strengthened the
Page 3 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

growth elements of the proven strategies at ERGO and in reinsurance. And as a
consequence, we expect growing earnings and returns on capital on equity of 12% to 14%.
And we aim for an average annual dividend growth per share of at least 5%.

FINAL

And with this introduction, I'd like to hand over to Christoph.

Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Thank you. Joachim. First of all welcome also from my side, it's pleasure really to lead you
through the financial update today. Let's start actually with the financial results 2020 on
Page 15. We are very pleased, Joachim mentioned that I think already, we are very
pleased to the 2020 financial performance, considering the severe impact of the COVID19 pandemic.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our IFRS result EUR1.2 billion would have met our guidance if adjusted for COVID-19 and if
you look at the drivers in reinsurance, we digested COVID losses of EUR3.4 billion pretax
and delivered ongoing profitable growth of around 10% both in P&C, as well as in Life
Health. ERGO successfully concluded the five-year strategy program, for the net profit of
EUR517 million, which is quite close to the guidance EUR530 million and adjusted for
COVID I think, it's fair to say that ERGO would have exceeded the guidance. The
economic capitalization remains strong 208% and with that, solvency II ratio, which is after
the deduction of the dividend, we are still close to the upper-end of our optimal range
and we are very comfortable on that level.
Local GAAP, partly [ph] German GAAP, here we see an increase in the earnings also
compared to last year, largely driven by one-offs, but to remind you very obviously local
GAAP accounting in Germany is deferring a lot from the IFRS, we all used to having
differences between IFRS and local GAAP. It has been -- these differences have been
negative quite some years in the past this year, it's the opposite. Nothing else to mention
here I think. On page 16 you'll see the COVID-19 impact in some more detail. And I think
what you see here is that we almost fully confirm the guidance we had given back in
December. The provision for 2020 increased only marginally and also the expectations for
2021 are largely unchanged as well. And we are confident that we are solidly reserved. But
of course, we can only monitor the situation closely since there remains a high level of
uncertainty in all these estimates.
Bringing to a little bit more detail, P&C, the loss estimate of EUR3.1 billion overall is
sufficiently prudent and on top of that at the end of 2020 only 22% of this amount, are
losses reported to us (inaudible). And of the total 78% of IBNR, a significant portion has
not yet been assigned to specific loss or specific contract. This indicates, on the one hand
side, the high degree of uncertainty that exists in the estimates, but then also the degree
to which we have built large provisions for losses, even though we do not know exactly
already when and where they will eventually be reported to us. But I think, another signal
of prudent here.
Referring to Life and Health. We are strongly provisioned for 2020 claims as well, including
also prudent IBNR for claims incurred in 2020 but not yet reported. The IBNR makes up

Page 4 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

approximately half of our booked losses for 2020. Our projection of claims cost for 2021
anticipated a strong winter surge in cases with an improvement starting late in Q1, driven
by the roll out of the vaccines. The level of the winter surge in cases in the United States,
in the UK and also in some other countries are higher than what we anticipated. Whether
or not this ultimately will translate into higher full-year costs than anticipated. This is still
very much dependent on how the pandemic will develop over the course of 2021 and
they are particularly, of course, in the United States.
Now let's have a look at the Q4 figures on Page 17 and Q4 is actually really fully in-line with
the guidance. So I think we can be very quick here. Reinsurance contributed EUR75 million
and ERGO EUR136 million to the overall EUR212 million net result. ERGO once again
posted a strong results in that quarter despite the COVID-19 impact. And on the
reinsurance side, we benefited from a favorable major loss experience apart from
COVID-19. At the normalized combined ratio, very nice signal of the very good underlying
profitability of our book was 96.6%. So to some extent, lower than the 97% which was the
full year guidance.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Life and Health Re, we continue to see elevated mortality in the context of COVID-19. In
related to that, we established in IBNR, the COVID reporting lacks [ph], but also in the
field of living benefit covers. In addition, we observed a further negative experience in the
US that goes beyond COVID-19 also we must say there is evidence that at least a
significant share of this can also be associated then indirectly with COVID-19. Furthermore,
there was a single large claim in Asia in Q4, which also influenced the result.
Fee income business continue to deliver pleasing contributions like it did already for a
large number of quarters. Finally, the investment result 3.3% was above the full-year
guidance and driven by realizations to offset derivative losses. Next page is a quick
reminder on the ROE. As you know, we discussed in December, we introduced the return
on equity now as a key performance indicator for our Group. This slide now shows to the
number at year-end, nothing more than that. The Group ROE came in at 5.3%, which is
below our cost of capital. But then if you adjusted it for COVID-19 effects, the normalized
ROE, would have been around 12%.
Let's have a closer look at our investment result, Page 19 which fully met the guidance of
3% for the year. Starting with regular income, the attrition of 30 basis points was unusually
high of course affected by COVID-19 entity [ph] derisking of our portfolio we did in that
context. So specifically we recorded, lower income from public and private equity
investments. But on top of that, of course, even low interest rate levels also helped us
here. Going forward, we turn to an expectation for a negative attrition of around 10 basis
points, in-line with the formal guidance.
The unrealized gains, increased up to a level of now EUR37 billion. In that context, I think
we discussed at various times it's normal course of things that reserves get realized
anyway in the course of the normal portfolio management activities. On top of that some
reserves have been realized for compensating losses on derivatives for hedging and also
to compensate some write-downs, we had in the -- especially in the first quarter. And then
also as usually for the financing of so-called ZZR. So, the additional interest rate reserve

Page 5 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

we build up in our German (inaudible) will life business to prepare them for an ongoing
low interest rate environment.
All in all, in the very volatile year we saw in 2020, we are pleased with the investment
income also with the overall development of the portfolio and the stable outcome of
activities. The next two slides cover ERGO now. The ERGO fully met the net income
target, if you would take out the COVID-19 impact. So I think that's another year with very
good news on the ERGO result. The premium volume was almost stable, there was some
pressure due to COVID-19 in some lines especially travel, which is shown here as part of
the Life and Health segment.
On the other hand P&C Germany, was growing very nicely in the retail and commercial
lines and we don't have any market figures yet, but we are convinced that this growth is
above market and therefore ERGO was also possible to increase its market share in
Germany. Internationally, the volume is stable. But as you know, we sold a number of
companies last year. So, the stable development means that the companies, which we
want to grow but they're delivering nice growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Net result was supported by all segments, which is very pleasing. In particular, the
international business posted strong results and the combined ratio in International came
in at 92.7% which is an excellent number given that the target was 94%. In Germany, the
combined ratio remained on the very good level which we had last year already some
92.4% in 2020 is also a very good outcome.
On the next slide, what you can see here is a collection of key performance indicators of
the ERGO Strategy Programme over the last five years. And what you see here is that
ERGO has completed the Strategy Programme delivering on its financial targets, without
any exception across the whole five-year period. And not only financially, but also
operationally ERGO successfully finished the ERGO Strategy Programme and regained a
competitive position in Germany by establishing the so-called hybrid operating model,
across all distribution channels, internationally the portfolio has been optimized as
mentioned before. And also there with a much better -- in a much better shape now than
it was five years ago.
So if you look at that, I think it's clear that ERGO now did an important step and is well
prepared for the next step of our strategy which we presented already in December. On
page 22 Reinsurance. First of all, in P&C reinsurance, we showed significant organic
growth in almost all lines of business, taking advantage of the hardening markets and also
of new business opportunities. Additionally, also our Life and Health business expanded
by around EUR1 billion across all core markets.
The bottom-line results though substantially declined, but this is due to COVID-19 related
losses, in P&C these losses were to some extent mitigated by low average and low Nat
cat losses, which came in below our budget, both for Q4 as well as for the full year. The
underlying profitability improved significantly over the last year, we show a normalized
combined ratio just below 97% for the full year. And as I said, the last quarter was even

Page 6 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

better than that. Given the pleasing outcome Joachim was commenting on that of the
general renewals, we are very optimistic that this (inaudible).
The Life and Health reinsurance technical result including fee income will also sort of the
full year ambition and again this was exclusively owing or nearly exclusively owing to the
impact of COVID-19 mortality claims. And then also some related trends, as mentioned
before. We had strong results in other geographies outside of the United States and also
strong and increasing fee income which strengthened the underlying profitability of our
Life and Health book. So adjusted for COVID-19, we continue to see a gradually increasing
earnings path in Life and Health.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Page 23. So just a snapshot on our Risk Solutions business, which also had a very
pleasing development, with strong business growth and the combined ratio improvement
of almost 4 percentage points compared to prior year. We benefited from better market
conditions and also expanded our footprint substantially across all units. And as you can
see and this is also something we -- I think, commented on a lot already in December, risk
solutions remains a growing and profitable segment and a key part of our strategy going
forward. And yeah, we will just continue to organically grow this business.
Turning to Reserving on Page 24. I think the first item on the list here COVID-19. I think -- if
everything has been said already before also on Asbestos I -- there's nothing, I would like
to comment other than that we are very safely being reserved here and I think, results
continue to be at a strong level. Therefore, I would like to concentrate my comments on
the slide here on US casualty. As you all know, the US casualty loss trend is a topic that
continues to affect the whole insurance industry at the moment and we are also seeing
adverse loss developments in our US book.
We have to distinguish though between different areas, we have observed adverse
development, particular in the US commercial liability lines and strengthened our reserves
here again in 2020. On the other hand areas -- such, for example, the personal lines
business have shown a much more favorable development and then from a much
broader perspective again our book overall continue to have a very pleasing and positive
reserve development. So the pockets where we had to strengthen the reserves are not
visible overall, as the ongoing reserve releases continue to be above our guidance of 4%
-- 4.2% particularly this year, and fully in-line with our expectation and despite a challenging
environment.
Our reserved strength is unchanged compared to the prior years. As you can see on Page
25, our Solvency II ratio decreased to 208% due to various drivers. First of all, we grew our
book significantly over the last year and growth means deploying capital. On top of that,
of course, COVID-19 and related capital market effects, most prominently, the lower
interest rate also left its mark with negative economic earnings, and also what we saw in
the comment on that on the next slide is an increase in the required capital.
It's important to notice that the 208% of the solvency [ph] ratio already includes the
deduction of the dividend of 7 percentage points. I think at this point I traditionally remind
you of our conservative way of calculating the Solvency II ratio. So I would just like to

Page 7 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

repeat that again today. So we have not included any transitional measures in our
numbers here. We also do not use the dynamic volatility adjustment and even the static
volatility adjustments only used for a very small number of subsidiaries in our group.
Despite this conservative calculation, our ratio is still close to the upper end of the selfdefined optimal range and as said already at the beginning of my presentation, we feel
very comfortable with that level. More details on the sources of economic earnings will be
provided with the release of our Annual Report on March 17.
On the solvency capital requirement. I can release some more details already today, and
this is done on Page 26. And what you see here is an increase of the Solvency II capital
requirement from EUR17.5 billion to EUR19.2 billion. What are the drivers in P&C, the SCR
increase is mainly growth driven, while in Life and Health, it's also growth but mainly the
result of the lower interest rates. On the investment risk side, so market and credit risk we
diversified our book further and we partially derisked also the portfolio. Still, the SCR went
up, mostly by the decline of the interest rates and also by higher risk charges, which we
applied considering the elevated volatility in the capital markets, especially in the first half
of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall if you maintain the balance between insurance and investment which is important
to us and continue to see that as a very healthy balance as shown on Page 26. Last but
not least on my Page 27. A few comments on German GAAP. The German GAAP result of
EUR3.2 billion came in much higher than the IFRS result. And as said before, this is due to
the differences we have between the two accounting standards, which lead to timing
variations with respect to the recognition of earnings and the P&L.
In 2020, this was mainly due to the high dividends from subsidiaries into some real estate
transactions within our group. But once again, of course, also due to the requirement to
build up equalization reserves in our local GAAP accounts, as you can see on the right
hand side of the slide.
There is one point on this slide, I would like to particularly emphasize, the very high level
of distributable earnings we show here now with EUR4.3 billion will not lead to higher
capital repatriation, who went above the plans and the capital repatriation strategy we
discussed at our Investor Day. But you should interpret it, as a strong basis to fund the
growing dividends and to support our opportunistic approach to share buybacks in the
future.
With that, I'm at the end of my presentation. Thank you very much for your attention. I'm
looking forward to your questions. Back to Hussong.

Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you gentlemen for your statements, we are now ready to go into Q&A. And
just one usual housekeeping remark please limit the number of your questions to a
maximum of two per person. So, please go ahead.

Page 8 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Questions And Answers
Operator

FINAL

Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from Kamran
Hossain of RBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

All right. Good afternoon. My two questions, the first one is on the P&C Re. The expense
ratio there [ph] reduced about three points year-on-year. How much of this is permanent
or is this kind of low -- less COVID spend. And I guess looking forward, should you make
[ph] greater operational leverage from growing at the 1-1 renewals and further growth to
come in like two years and benefits [ph] further.
And the second question is on Life Re, given how US mortality has kind of increased
pretty substantially even since your December guidance, are you still comfortable with the
EUR400 million Life target? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Kamran good afternoon, Christoph here. I'm going to take both of your question. Expense
ratio development, there are some one-off elements in there, as we for example
released some provisions also in Q4, but fundamentally major driver is growth here. And
as we have been growing our book quite significantly, and continue to do so, I think there
is continued pressure also on the expense ratio going forward, despite the fact that some
of the one-offs will not repeat themselves again this year.
On the Life Re side, US mortality indeed the winter spike was probably little bit higher in
the first couple of weeks of this year than what we had in our mind when we came up with
the estimate in December. However, I mean, this is a long year ahead of us and therefore
I think it will by far too early to say that our guidance would no longer be the right one,
maybe the risk is a little bit higher, that we will not achieve the target. But the guidance is
what it is, then is unchanged.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

That's pretty [ph]. Thanks very much.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Andrew Ritchie of Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. The first one, I think normally ask about topline for non-life, but I'm going to ask
this time at the Investor Day in December, you gave a 2021 premium number for P&C Re
including Risk Solutions of EUR24.6 billion of GWP, which was anticipated with the year
growth on 2020. It turns out, 2020 ended at our number, that it looks like it ended
Page 9 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

stronger than expected. What -- and therefore, is your expectation still a flat GWP over
the course of full-year '21. I appreciate this currency effects and possibly COVID effects.
But maybe if you could just update or was there something funny about Q4 in P&C, which
inflated the premium?
The second question, could you just remind us what your sort of approach or a view is on
US casualty. I think, looking at Slide 83, which allows for renewals. You have kept your US
casualty book essentially flat year-on-year is that the case? Am I right to interpret, you're
not entirely comfortable yet growing that business mindful of loss cost issues? Thanks.

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

Hi, Andrew. This is Joachim. So let me give you the answer on the premium expectations
of the premium outlook. frankly we don't pay so much attention to our premium planning,
because if we don't steer premiums. It's just a number that comes out at the end when
we do the accounts. So we do the economic steering, we do IFRS steering. And there we
apply quite some accuracy. We do not care so much for premium. Now that doesn't give
you a precise answer, but it just means. Yes, the outlook that we talked about in
December -- may in the meantime, tend to be at the lower end we should end up higher.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yeah, Andrew, US casualty, I'm happy to take that. I think, I mean -- you were referring to
Page 83 and you're right, the book is stable. And I mean you rightly saying that we are not
significantly growing the book. I would even go beyond that what we had in the 1/1
renewals also a shift in our casualty book from XL, from excess of loss treaties to
proportional treaties, further reducing the amount of excess of loss treaties, we are
having and an increasing the share of proportional which also gives us more confidence
going forward.
So yes, indeed we are -- we continue to be cautious in that segment.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thanks.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Vikram Gandhi of Societe Generale. Please go ahead.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hi, it's Vikram from SocGen. Just a couple of quick questions. One is on P&C Re the -- I
noticed the attritional loss ratio for the full-year has actually increased by a full percentage
point. Just wondered what could explain this. And secondly, it's on the expense ratio and
you've partly answered it in the -- in one of the previous questions, whether you had a
one-off in Q4. But for Q4 specifically we are used to seeing a bump up in the expense
ratio generally due to sliding scale commission adjustments. I wondered if there is any

Page 10 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

other specific drivers at this time around, and whether this is the sort of new pattern that
we should be expecting going forward? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yeah. Christoph again. Well, thank you for the question first. I'll start with the second one
Q4 expenses. I think I was mentioning before already that we were able to release some
provisions also in cost provisions and then it did specifically do so in the fourth quarter so
that might already be the explanation, you're looking for.
On the attritional loss ratio. I think couple of statements here. First of all business mix
always plays overall. So it's not that simple to compare just the nominal value against each
other. On top of that, as you know, we're always taking conservative loss picks in the
current year, which we also did again this year. And if you look at our triangle, where we
have two years with a negative one-off, we might have felt inclined to even be more
conservative than traditionally in the current year and maybe that holds the place overall
[ph] when you look at that number.
So there is not a single reason for that. But yes, your observation is right.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We'll take our next question from Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Thank you. My questions, the first one would be on Risk Solutions
space, so -- the 96.8%, I think the medium-term plan or at least, at some point Investor
Day plan was to get to 92% for this part of the business. So my question is that -- i.e., is
this 97% sort of consistent with the planning and could you remind us how the walk should
be, because as we know this is not clearly the pure commercial lines expos [ph] book. So
that is the first topic, risk solutions. Second topic is, an apologies, just for going back to
the US liability, where I understand obviously you've taken conservative reserving. But just
if I look at Slide 76 on the deck, of the renewals, the biggest line is proportional casualty
and you mentioned you have increase in it.
So, would you mind, I mean -- is this more into Europe. And could you also please clarify,
you said that you were careful about US commercial liability, but not for about personal
lines or could you just clarify a bit more on the US casualty, please. Thank you very much.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yeah, okay, let's maybe start with US casualty then. I mean we're -- I mean, sorry, for the
very general answer. But I mean we are always cautious where we do not see attractive
enough prices in the market and this is very often the case in the commercial space and
Page 11 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

sometimes also the case in the personal space but generally spoken, the personal lines
business is less affected by social inflation and all these trends. And therefore we are
more -- generally more confident in this personal space.
The other statement is I think, that we generally feel more comfortable in the casualty
area with the proportional treaties, that's why we also shifted exposure from XL to
proportional in the renewal here, this is also one of the reasons here. And this is what you
can -- also can see on the Slide 76, you are referring to where you see a positive volume
change in proportional. And at the same time reduction in XL. And if you look at the order
of magnitude, often the proportional treaty just as higher premium volumes because you
participate also in the premiums of the primary insurer, whereas the XL premiums are
pure risk premiums and a nominal value sometimes tends to be much lower.
So you always have to keep that in mind when you look at volume changes going up in
proportion and going down in XL. The absolute numbers sometimes differ quite a lot. And
I think that's the whole story really, so nothing else to be reported here and we continue
to be cautious, we took decisive action on the reserving side, maybe a last remark also on
reserving, we reserve the business and we're relying on our own assessments. So we do
not take the Picks from our clients, loss picks and then their expectation. But really do it in
our own way and we're looked at the business as prudent as always. But then on the
other hand of course, it was another year where we had to take some action at certain
pockets of our casualty book, and clearly we are not happy with that. And the other
question Risk Solutions, and I think two answers to that. First of all, also our Risk Solution
business was quite heavily affected by cat events and whereas on our overall business we
came in below our cat budgets for risk solutions, in particularly in the US, we exceeded
the budgets quite significantly. And therefore the 96.8% this year was also still driven by
above-average cat exposure. And therefore, I would say it's a journey to -- bent down to
lower numbers, but obviously also that business despite being more stable has some
volatility in it. And this -- this year 2020, the cut experience, was not great in risk solutions.
And also we will see rate increases going forward on that book, of course. So it's a
journey down to the target level of 92%.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thank you Christoph.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Thomas Fossard of HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. I've got two questions, the first one would be relating to your pricing
of 2.5% positive in the 1/1 renewals. Could you, explain us a bit how you've taken positive
original rate momentum in your proportional book, how is it has been factored in your
2.5%. And also what you see claims inflation and maybe see a model changes, also that
you have factored in.

Page 12 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Just to phrase the question differently, you're reporting 2.5%, which seems to be the less
positive pricing momentum of the year, of the European peers. While I guess that you
believe that you had very strong renewals. So maybe if you could give us a bit of
granularities around the 2.5%, just to make us understand why these are very strong
economic renewals. And the second question would be related to your local GAAP
number. So you highlighting EUR800 million of additional acquisition reserves increase in
2020. What's going to be the incremental number that we have to expect in the coming
years even, I guess that due to COVID maybe some of your equalization reserves have
been deplated. So what the run-rate beyond 2020. Thank you.

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

Yeah, Thomas, thank you for the question. Starting with the 2.4% price increase and I think
I have to talk a little bit about methodology now. I think that the very general high level
remark would be the 2.4% is a number we would fully expect to be earned through in our
combined ratio overtime going forward. This means, this number includes not only claims
inflation effects but also changed business mix effects, for example.

Bloomberg Transcript

So this number includes, for example, if you have a different growth numbers in different
lines, it includes also if you have XL [ph] contracts versus proportional contracts that's all
included. Also included claims inflation, not only on our level but with proportional treaties
of course, also the underlying business. But then again, as I said before on the reserving
side, based on our own assessment and not just by what we hear from our clients.
So it's really our own best estimate what we think claims inflation will be and trends like
social inflation or all these nice little events, which led to higher reserves this year on the
liability side. All these kind of things are fully included as claims inflation in the pricing
assessment, as well as model changes or our most recent expectation, let's call it that
way on the property side and on the cut side.
So it's, -- to the best of our knowledge, our best estimate expectation on the claims side
and that's fully deducted -- mix effects fully deducted and what remains is the best
estimate what we think will be fully earned through in the combined ratio.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yeah, -- sorry I thought I covered it already -- but it was taking very big methodologies
sorry. -- HCB, the equalization reserve there is every year a theoretical maximum number
which in Germany is called -- the so-called OIBDA [ph] and this is the number where you
would end if each individual line would be filled up to the maximum possible in that
reserve, which is an unrealistic scenario because it would mean over many, many years, all
the, lines are outperforming, you have to fill it about every single year.
And this OIBDA [ph] is also very much growth driven because it's premium proportion. So
if you grow your book this OIBDA also goes up. Currently this, OIBDA is still a mid singledigit billion number above our current level, but then it has not -- of course, not to be filled
up in a single year. But it will be distributed over time. Having said that, expectation needs
to be, that there are equal -- that their contributions of equal size not unrealistic going

Page 13 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

forward. So, and everything else is really hard to predict because the formula and the way
to calculate it, is not only very complex. It's also sometimes counter intuitive, what
happens there. And therefore, it's really hard to predict sometimes.

FINAL

But I would not be surprised to have similar orders of magnitude in the next couple of
years and to be built up.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Michael Haid of Commerzbank. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Two questions from my side. First on Nat cat, one
of your competitors materially reduced its exposure to secondary parallels, which are
hailstorms (inaudible) mid-sized storms and so on. And does reduce the exposure to
frequency as they think that these risks in times of climate change are not adequately
priced yet, how comfortable are you with this lower layer and secondary parallels
unmodeled risks.
Second question on Life Re, you mentioned that higher mortality during the course of
2021 may not necessarily increase only to higher losses, can you explain why this is the
case? Do you have any mechanisms in place, reinsurance or whatever? Or is your
exposure is just too small?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah. First one. Yeah let's start with the mortality question. I think the answer to the
question is, just very straightforward that our reserve level is already quite high. So it is -lot have covered already by the reserves. And the second question secondary parallels
non-models, not Nat cat risk and so on, the frequency risk, and so on and so forth. I think
the general answer is that of course, we try to include in our models as much as possible.
And of course we also - will be a feeling much more comfortably soon, some thing is
properly modeled in our risk models. Frequency risks and events not fully included our
models. I think, we are careful and have been historically and quite to be a little bit
reluctant in on the volume [ph] there.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
We'll take our next question from (inaudible). Please go ahead.

Page 14 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you, good afternoon I have one question regarding the dividend proposal. Could
you just update us on your talks with the German regulator in recent months and what are
the key metrics, they have been focusing on in risk [ph] case. That's my question?

FINAL

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah, I'm very happy to do so. As you can imagine those discussions we're quite
intense, it took a lot of time and they've been very constructive. I mean the German
regulator was already constructive last year and this did not change at all. Key metrics
well, to be honest it, was a very holistic conversation we had.
So similar like in the call today, we are talking about the economic, few IFRS local GAAP
risk budgeting, SCR similarly, of course, also regularized, interested in all these different
perspective. So it was a very holistic discussion, more or less across all the different
perspectives, you could have on our company.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We'll take our next question from James Shuck of Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi, thank you. And good afternoon, good morning. So a couple of things from me, I just
wanted to dwell a little bit on frequency benefits, which we tend to focus a little bit
perhaps too much on the primary side. And the reinsurers to some extent, I mean, I can
understand on the proportional side on retail, that should be just a mechanical thing. But
equally just less reduced economic activity and changes in societal behavior, how are you
thinking about frequency benefits in 2021.
I know you have your target combined ratio, do you allow for any frequency benefits in
there. Or would that come on top and I suppose the flip side of that is while you're
touching on loss [ph]. How are you thinking about potential supply chain disruption
through COVID? Second question was around the -- on Slide 53, which shows the Life
VaR. So I think the VaR has gone up a little bit. But it's mainly market driven, and business
growth driven. My question is kind of really about well, when you look at these given your
experience with COVID sick and mortality and the mobility side, when we think about long
COVID, have you not reassess your models was in, rise upwards some of those VaRs, or
should you not to do so. Thank you.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Okay. Well, first of all, frequency. And I understood your question in a way that you're
talking about motor frequency, that benefits some primary players are primarily seeing
when looking at the combined ratio development in 2020. I think, the remark I can make
Page 15 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

FINAL

here is that on the reinsurance side, we benefited to much, much smaller extent if at all
from the development wise that. Because in most of the treaties, sliding scale
commissions are pretty common. And therefore the benefit would only sit, that's the
primary insurer.
We have some frequency benefits on the motor side, ERGO, probably a little bit more in
the international book because it's, a higher portion in motor then in Germany, but
probably also to some extent in Germany, as we also have some experience there that
the frequency went down during the lockdown phases in Germany. Is it very significant?
No, it's not. And it's clearly overcompensated already at ERGO by higher claims, due to
COVID-19. So the frequency effect is fully included in the quantification of the COVID-19
effect we gave you in the deck.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

It wasn't specifically just on motor, it was really just -- it is not logical to think that a
reinsurance company should benefit from frequency across all sorts of the -- all parts of
the portfolio, commercial and retail proportional and excessive loss?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Well, I think it depends really a little bit line by line. And then also how the business is
structured. I think the most obvious is really motor, but then already on the fire side, I'm
not so sure really because as soon as people stimulate-home [ph] more, there might
even waste [ph] for more fire claims. And so it did -- I don't think it's that straight forward
and it's clearly not a trend, which is so significant that we have been discussing it
exhaustively here.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay. And on the --.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yeah, Life VaR, it increases indeed mostly interest-rate driven but that's by for sure, by far,
the more important driver than any consideration about long COVID or mobility or you
name them. Because it's just -- the much more important sensitivity on this value at risk.
We are updating our models also the life side quite regularly, with recent experience and
with the recent claims expectations. But what we also have to say I mean, another maybe
interesting and relevant question. So it's hard to find an answer right now, is if you look at
the increased mortality right now, what's going to happen with mortality once this
pandemic is over, will we see a compensating reduced mortality going forward or will it
just fade away in a sense that we go back to normal, but without any offsetting effect. And
so in that sense, I think from a biometric perspective, they are more open questions then
just the question of long COVID. And all of them are hard to really analyze and includes in
the models at this point in time because we just lack data. In any case, the interest rate
component is the much more material one in any way for Life and Health risk for the slide
you were referring to.

Page 16 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay, thank you very much, Christoph.

Operator

FINAL

We'll take our next question from Iain Pearce of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi, thanks. Two from me please. Firstly on the strengthening you took in '18 and '19
accident years. Is this sort of all US liability related, mainly US liability or there any other
sort of problem areas where you have strengthened. And if so, could you provide some
color around those.
And then secondly, I just had a question on the side [ph] book. We've seen some players
increased their loss ratios and so you just have deterioration on some recent underwriting
is there as well, if you could just comment on your experience inside will that be useful.
Thanks.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, I'm very happy to do so. On the claims triangle. I think if you look into our releases
over the last couple of years, what you will see is that a negative development in the first
year is not fully unusual, we had that once in a while and the reason, often was that we
use the first year to further increase prudent in our reserves and there is an element of
that this year also included in our triangle again.
The other years of the second negative year, this is clearly related to US casualty and this
is more of other uncommon for us to have two years in a row with negative development.
And finally, then on the ERGO side, ERGO has some parts of its book, where a clear
allocation two years and a triangle is not easily possible and therefore some COVID-19
experience of 2020 is also showing for technical reasons, negative one-off in '19. But this
is clearly just, let's say a very approximate presentation -- miss presentation of what's
going on there, these have all been of the COVID related -- without COVID the ERGO
one-off, would have been positive.
Yeah, that's what I can say on the triangle. I think on cyber, of course, we are aware that
there has been a lot of talk around recent events on the cyber space. We do not observe
to that extent, if at all, it would be maybe a loss ratio shift of maybe up to 5 percentage
points or something for our book, which continues to be overall very profitable.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Perfect, thank you.

Operator
Page 17 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

(Operator Instructions) We'll take our next question from Will (inaudible) of UBS, please go
ahead.

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, hi guys. Couple of questions on SCR, if that's okay. To go the uplift for the P&C
exposure guys, presumably that's incorporating the successful one January new [ph]. Is
that they -- already including similar exposure growth assumptions for later renewals, you
mentioned their more not cat heavy but you're expecting higher prices. So just, sort of an
idea as to what's incorporated within that uplift this time.
And then the second component is what do we need to see in the market future and do
you see these additional risk charges on the volatility side. And is there any way you can
give us an indication of how much that SCR uplift was the half year on year for these
higher [ph] charges specifically?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. The first question is simpler to answer. So I'll start with that one. We included the
SCR calculation in business, which is already bound. And this is to only for the 1/1 renewal
(Technical Difficulty). As this is not the case, for 1/4 and 1/7, it's not included in the
calculation.
The additional risk charges that's hard to say, and honestly I'm not even sure if we did
internally a separate calculation. So not changing anything in our book. Just changing the
risk charges and on the full SCR calculation, I don't think we did do that. What we can say
is that it made quite some roll already in Q2, and I'm not aware that it did a lot -- intensify
a lot over the remainder of the year, it was mostly an effect already visible in Q2, but the
order of magnitude, I'm sorry I do not have answers at this moment.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay, just to come back on the forward renewal expectation, do you believe -- you baked
something in, because it's a 12 month projection, a normal level of growth per se. Just
trying to understand where that stacks up relative to the 11% volume growth from
January?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Well I do, I mean, hard to say today, it will depend on the volume and the outcome. I think,
here a similar answer like on the life and health value at risk before holds true. I think the
interest rate is a much bigger driver to our SCR than the growth, which we might be able
to achieve in 1/4 or 1/7. But on the other hand, yes, of course, if we grow it will -- I mean it
will mean additional capital deployment and then we would also be very happy to do so.
Because it's -- just the expectation that in a market phase like where we currently are. We
will easily -- in the cost of capital with the business we're writing right now.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Absolutely. Okay, thanks.
Page 18 of 19



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-25

Operator
And there are no further questions at this time, I would like to turn the conference back to
our host.

FINAL

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

Thank you and thanks to everyone for joining us this afternoon. A pleasure as always, if
there are further questions, please don't hesitate to get in touch with the Investor
Relations team and we very much hope to see you all soon again, stay healthy. Bye-bye.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. That concludes the call. Thank you for your participation, you may now
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

