Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Q2 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariol, Member of the Management Board for Finance, Controlling, Risk
Oliver Baete, Chairman of the Management Board, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Analyst
Andrew Ritchie
Ashik Musaddi
Farooq Hanif
Michael Huttner
Peter Eliot
Vinit Malhotra
William Hawkins

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results of
the Second Quarter 2021. For your information, this conference call is being streamed live
on the allianz.com and YouTube. A recording will be made available shortly after the call.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to your host today, Mr.Oliver Schmidt of
Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you, Tracy. Yeah. Good afternoon from my side as well and welcome to our
conference call. Today I'm joined by our CEO, Oliver Baete; and our CFO, Giulio Terzariol.
As always Giulio will guide you through the details of the quarter, but before that Oliver's
going to share some personal thoughts with you. Oliver, over to you.

Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

Yeah, good morning, good afternoon, good evening, wherever you are. Thank you for
joining us for this call. This has been an extraordinary quarter, actually an extraordinary
week, and an extraordinary day today and I wanted to speak directly to you as our

Page 1 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

investors and our analysts and share a view on the health and the performance of our
company as we stand today.

FINAL

As you've seen, Allianz reported very strong results that really reﬂect the resilience and
power in delivering our strategy. And I think it's very important to note that this is not a
one-oﬀ that it is the outcome of continuous investment in resilience and earnings power
that you are seeing and I'll talk about the drivers of that in the second.
Demand for our products that you have seen in services, growth income, proﬁt ﬂow, cash
ﬂow on the rise everywhere. And I think that's very very important to understand, as is
customer and employee satisfaction very important. And as you may remember
November 2018 we said we're not just targeting ﬁnancial outcomes, they are the result of
our unwavering focus on our customers and employees, their needs, and their ability to
deliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now the last 18 months have been incredibly tough period for our customers, you all,
you're also customers, and our employees throughout we have tried to dedicate
ourselves to your success and your well-being. And let me just give you a couple of
examples. In the property-casualty insurance, we have been really, really, really hit as an
industry with substantial natural catastrophes, less individual very large ones like we had
them a few years ago, but now what we're seeing out of time and change the number and
severity are increasing across the Board.
Second, the demand for our life and health product is extremely strong, dynamic, revenue
growth is seen everywhere and the margins are great. If you'd asked me three years ago,
can we really given the interest rate that we are operating at today, not the one we are
envisioning in November of 2018, get the new business margin above 3%, that is coming
out of really new products that are protection oriented and they have the right balance
between what customers need and want and get as beneﬁts and the returns for
shareholders, I would have found that a tall order. Today's reality even in markets that are
structurally challenged like, for example, France, we've been able to innovate and come
up with products that are outstanding in demand and in margin.
Our asset management business sales continue to grow and reached again a new historic
height not just in terms of assets under management, also in proﬁtability. So we have
momentum in all our business segments. And beyond that, our capital position remains
strong, people focus a lot on Solvency II, and I think that's totally ﬁne. By the way, we
called the RTA 1 bond early in order to get ﬂexibility, made a lot of money on doing that
despite that we are 206 well above the 180 target and what we really need to operate.
And cash ﬂow generation from the business es to the holding is extremely strong. So,
that's why we've moved the outlook to the other half of our target range and that's why
we've also been honoring our promise to do the second half our 1.5 billion share buyback
program that because of COVID, we need to pause last year and we're delivering on our
promise. And we will continue to deliver on our promises to you, our customers, and our
employees.

Page 2 of 29



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Now Giulio, our CFO, would speak to you in detail about these outcomes, but before we
move into the numerical discussion and I know you need to focus on all the number -- the
numerics to think about what the valuation points are. I'd like to address three topics. The
ﬁrst one is customers. I want to address, for example, the storms and the ﬂoods in Europe
and express our solidarity and support with the people that have been aﬀected. This is
not a cynical move on, now we're going to make more money, sell more ﬂood cover at
higher prices that really highlights the role our industry, and Allianz particularly play in
helping to rebuild homes, helping to rebuild the lives of our customers, and keep on
highlighting to policymakers that climate change is not a problem in terms of the warms
of the air, it is actually aﬀecting our lives in a very negative way.
Second, regarding the support of our employees, Allianz is doing a lot to continue to
support our people in under COVID restrictions, remember Europe may be doing better,
many parts of Asia are not yet out of the woods and are suﬀering, Africans are suﬀering
and we need to continue to put our emphasis on also making vaccination eﬀorts much
more successful there. And we need to make sure that in Europe, we don't stop the
vaccination if eﬀorts -- Allianz is actually a part of a corporate participation and the federal
vaccination campaign and we need to continue.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last, of course, I would like to provide you with a brief update on the context and
perspective related to the disclosure earlier this week regarding the reassessment of risk
related to the AGI U.S structure. Alpha Funds, as mentioned in our release, these things
are highly sensitive from a legal standpoint, so there's very limited things that we can say
about this at this point in time. I'm sorry for that, but you all know how U.S. litigation
works.
Now, I can spend a lot of time in terms of what we're doing for the ﬂood victims in
Europe. By the way, it's not just Germany, it's also in the Benelux countries. We've had
storms earlier this year, particularly in June in all parts of Europe, for example, in France
and in Eastern Europe. We're doing our best to support our client wherever we can not
just by the way by paying money, but getting drying machines, organizing logistics,
bringing things that really help people deal with it.
The second part, I've just mentioned the vaccinations, pretty pleased, I say that also in
terms of you potentially being kind, make sure the only answer to COVID is not
lockdowns, it's not policy, it is about getting vaccinated. And we need to convince the
people that have doubts that this is the only way out. It is the only way out. At least, that's
what we believe.
And think about it, in Allianz alone in Germany, we have been given more than 23,000
COVID charts in terms of ﬁrst and second vaccinations to our people and that is including
the relatives and we believe that is what has to be happening. If you think about the fact
that we have about 45,000 people in Germany, that's a pretty encouraging rate of things
that we have done.
Now, third and as you're probably waiting for this, I want to address the disclosure in
terms of what we actively announced Sunday evening after a reassessment of risks related

Page 3 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

to the Structured Alpha Funds at AGI U.S. LLC.
Trust me. This was not an easy week for us, Before us and it was not an easy decision. We
really really moved and spent hours in the Board of Management, we consulted with our
supervisory board. But because of new information obtained on very short notice at the
end of the week with respect of the pending regulatory proceedings, particularly the
involvement of the U.S. DOJ and now reviews, we had to reassess the risk associated with
the structure of our funds. In light of the investigation litigation, please do understand, I
cannot go into details but rest assured that the underlying issues will be thoroughly
reviewed and we would like to address them in due course.
And any conduct I individual employees, that was not in line with our FX or our standards
will not be tolerated and would trigger consequences for those who potentially violated
them. The three assessments of risk caused us to publish our ad hoc disclosure which you
have seen on Sunday evening.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the non-Germans, you need to understand and diﬀerent to the U.S., we have to go
out immediately whenever we hear something that may be material for a purchasing or a
sale decision and we recognize that taking the step on a weekend had a considerable
weak impact on our share price. But we have to be absolutely committed to being
transparent with our shareholders and not just follow the rule of law by line, but also and
it's hard and we made this disclosure therefore in accordance with the applicable laws.
Particularly here in Germany given what has always been happening the last few years,
credible early communication is fully in line with our principle of transparency and our
culture, it's not just a legal necessity. And our decision to inform the market immediately
about important developments, therefore, was both legally driven but also reﬂective of
what we would like to stand for.
Now, please recognize that it is in the interest of our shareholders and the company to
respect the integrity of the reviews and the process of these authorities. We're not just
fully cooperating, we have actively reached out and partnered with the authorities in
charge of the Structured Alpha investigations, the DOJ, and the SEC. And with respect to
our civil proceedings, which we disclosed early last year, we will continue to defend the
interest of our shareholders with both discipline and vigor.
Now, it is important to put our most recent disclosure, however, into perspective,
especially in the context of Allianz, very strong global operations, and our strong track
record. First, we want to underscore that this outcome is not reﬂective of our ethics[ph], of
our culture, and certainly, not of our performance.
As investors ourselves, as one of the largest in the world, we understand our clients'
displeasure, what happened around the Structured Alpha investment, and for some that
may have not met their expectations on performance. As a company that prizes integrity,
we do not measure the impact of this outcome in terms of ﬁnancial terms along. We are
clear that conﬁdence and trust are aﬀected and the despair amount for us to restore that
as quickly as possible.
Page 4 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

In light of the pending investigation and litigation, again please understand that I cannot
go into details, but be rest assured that the underlying issues will be thoroughly reviewed
again in full cooperation with the authorities. And last but not least, I would like to say that
we are above all a meritocratic organization that will take every opportunity to learn from
every lesson that can be and improved further in terms of what we do.
Now, we also wanted to say that what has happened in the Structured Alpha sphere is no
indication of the performance, the ethics, or anything that happens at Allianz Global
investors. It's a very small part, very specialized part of what Allianz Global investors does.
And they have made enormous program since the fall and winter of 2019 when we
decided together with our Board here that we want to overhaul the structure, organization
and leadership team of Allianz Global Investors. This success has been extremely strong
and that starts with investment performance that is now so much better than it was -- what
it was in prior years.

Bloomberg Transcript

77% now outperform in terms of one year of use, 69% in three years 48% of the mutual
funds are now in the top decile of the 3 year Morning Star peer ranking, numbers that we
hadn't seen for a long time before. From that ﬂoat[ph], much better net inﬂows, and from
those we have seen very strong ﬁnancial results. You see that -- saw that this quarter, and
we believe it's going to continue into the future and we want to make sure that everybody
understands Allianz Global investors is core to what we do our activities in the U.S.
according to what we do.
And that then leads me to the last comment in this regard, asset management is a core
pillar of what Allianz does, a core pillar of our business model, and a core part of our
value proposition to customers. In fact, life insurance oﬀerings and asset management
oﬀerings are integrated and are converging whether you today buy a product that is
called life insurance or asset management product is often nomenclature. And we really
believe we are uniquely positioned to get the best out of combining both. And we're
probably that's only shop in our industry that is so strong both in life and asset
management.
With that, I'm basically through with my comments, the numbers speak for themselves, I
think. We have the conﬁdence to move forward and when people say, well, are you not
afraid about the potential ﬁnancial impact? Yes, it will have -- leave a scar on our skin, but
it will make us stronger. Just think about the numbers, the next three years at a minimum,
we should be generating every about 9 billion-plus, growing 5% earnings will talk about
that end of the year, but that's what the market says that gives us 27 billion of cash, lots of
buﬀer, lots of ability to face not just the challenges from this one, but be able to invest in
our future, to invest in our people, to invest in our clients and to invest in you.
And with that, I'll hand over to Giulio. Thank you.

Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you, Oliver, and good afternoon to everybody. As Oliver said, the numbers are
speaking for themselves, but we'll still go through the numbers and they explain the

Page 5 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

numbers. So, if we go to Page 3, as you can see the results for the six months have been
very strong with a good revenue growth of 5%. Also, the operating proﬁt is at EUR6.7
billion level, which is not only better than the last year, but also is signiﬁcantly ahead of
our outlook of EUR12.0 billion divided by 2. And that's also the reason why we are
upgrading our guidance for the 2020 -- for 2021.
The shareholder net income is very strong at EUR4.8 billion. And then when you look at
the contribution by segment, you can see that all segments did a good job of delivering
operating proﬁt and also delivering strong operational KPIs. The combined ratio in
property-casualty is much improved compared to last year. And this is basically in line
with our 193 targets. The new business margin is at the target level of 3% and the revenue
business is EUR1.2 billion, very very good and then the cost-income ratio is below the 60%
level with an inﬂow number of EUR60 billion -- about EUR65 billion for the six months. So,
very strong operational KPIs, which support clearly the operating proﬁt delivery.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you go to Page 5, the second quarter is basically a representation what happened
during the end of six months. As you remember, we had a very good ﬁrst quarter. The
second quarter has been basically the same level like the ﬁrst quarter. Indeed in the
second quarter, we can even see an improvement on the revenue side as you see our
revenue grow by 12.6% and all segments have contributed to the growth of the revenue
this applies to the Life Health business, to asset management but also to property
casualty. If you remember, in the ﬁrst quarter, the growth in property-casualty was slightly
negative, but now you can see a good plus of 3.6%.
The operating proﬁt stands at EUR3.3 billion so that's pretty much consistent with your
operating proﬁt that we had also in Q1. And then, as I think, EUR2.2 billion is a very solid
number and also in the second quarter you can see that the operational KPIs are pretty
strong, but I'm going to speak about those KPIs more in details in the rest of the
presentation.
At Page 7, the solvency ratio is a solid 206%. We have a drop of about 4 percentage
points compared to the level to the level of March, but there's also expected because we
performed the purchase of a EUR1.6 [ph] billion of a hybrid otherwise as we're going to
see in the second year operating capital generation is very strong and the sensitivities
more or less in line with the sensitivity that we showed to you for the end -- at the end of
March.
Now, if we go to Page 9 and there's the good news that the operating capital generation
is coming pretty strong. As you remember, we had in ﬁrst quarter with a capital
generation of about 4% in the second quarter where you removed from the capital
generation the dividend and the taxes we are at 3%, we see now little bit more growth
coming in the property-casualty side compared to what we had in Q1. So, this is clearly
taking down a little bit operating proﬁt generation, capital generation. But overall, we are
a 7% for the six months. And we have therefore also upgraded our guidance for the
number, which is in excess of 10 percentage points of capital generation.

Page 6 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

Otherwise, on the capital management and management actions, you can see the impact
of the dividends of the normal regular across the dividend, and also, you can see the
impact of having the purchased 1.6 billion of shareholding all this leads to a comfortable
subject to solvency ratio of 206%.
Now, coming to the segment and starting from P&C, starting from the growth in P&C, we
have achieved internal growth of 3.6%. You can see that we had a nice development in
Germany, we had a nice development in Australia, obviously in Eastern Europe, and then
clearly, you can see a strong recovery as Allianz partners. Obviously, Allianz partners was
aﬀected last year by the COVID situation, especially in travel. Now we see a recovery. We
are not at the level of 2019 yet, but especially in the United States, we are seeing a
recovery. So, we expect to see premium growth also in the remainder of the year.
In the entities, where we see a negative growth, this is driven either by the underwriting
actions that we have undertaken the course of 2020. This applies to AGCS, so you can see
the eﬀect on the underwriting actions that have been taken throughout the course of
2020, also in the second part of 2020. And then in other cases like Spain or to a certain
degree also the UK or France, we're really focused on keeping proﬁtability. So, sometimes
we see there is some tension on the rates, but we try to keep our proﬁtability and
preserve the margin.

Bloomberg Transcript

All in all, it's a good picture. And then also, when you look at the price momentum is
stable. So, for the time being, we also see that the prices that we are able to get in the
markets are also consistent with the loss trend that we are experiencing. So, a good
picture for our underwriting performance for to date.
At page 13, the operating proﬁt is increased by about EUR200 million, and that's driven
by the improvement in the combined ratio. Here, you can see there a lot of moving
pieces. On the one side, the natural catastrophe load is signiﬁcantly higher compared to
last year. The expense ratio is also higher, but you might remember that last year we had a
one-oﬀ pushing down positive or not pushing down the expense ratio for the quarter, but
when you look at the 26.4% for the second quarter, it's deﬁnitely better compared to 27%
that we had for the full year 2020. And then you can see that in the second quarter of this
year there are no has been a little bit more elevated 4%. When you look at the six months
view of the runoﬀ we are at 2.5%, which is pretty much in line with what could be a normal
expectation.
Last year, we had the COVID impact, this year the COVID impact is basically neutral. So
when you put all together and when we run our analysis, we can say that the level of
performance, underlying performance is pretty much consistent with the level that we had
last year, and more importantly, is on target with the 93% of combined ratio, you can see
these even easier if you look at the six months number.
Now at page 15, the combined ratio for the entities, clearly in Germany, the combined
ratio is elevated and that's because of the signiﬁcant amount of natural catastrophe. If you
adjust for that, you can see that there is a very strong underlying performance in
Germany. We had also a little bit of positive and also (inaudible) setting the load from the

Page 7 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

natural catastrophe. Then you can see a lot of strong performance, it's the OE listed
below like, UK, Australia, France, Italy, especially Italy, Eastern Europe, and Spain. And
then as always Latin America and Turkey, they tend to have higher combined ratio, but
here we should keep in mind that the interest rate LIBOR is much higher. So, you can run
at a combined ratio over 100% if (inaudible) generates value for the shareholder.
AGCS is 97%, which is in line with the 98% if we want to achieve by the end of the year.
And then what is clearly a little bit of an outlier if you want is the combination of Euler
Hermes, it's 63%. But I think you know by now that the development of claims in the credit
insurance is extremely favorable. So from that point of view, we achieved the combined
ratio, which is exceptionally good. We're also exiting the state schemes in most of the
country. So, moving forward, we are very encouraged to see this kind of performance
coming out of Euler Hermes. So overall, a good quarter, clearly with a signiﬁcant amount
of natural catastrophe. But despite that, we've been able to achieve a 93.9% combined
ratio. And also while you look at the six months, we're at the level 93.4%, which is very
close to our target of 93%.

Bloomberg Transcript

At page 17, we're showing the investment results, which is up compared to the prior
period. This might appear surprising because usually there is an expectation that the
investment results is going to go down. But what happened this quarter, we had a
stronger performance from dividend, from our -- also private equity funds, there was the
opposite last year because of the COVID situation.
So, overall the dividend income is being very strong and it is supporting clearly our
operating investment results. We're learning now when you look at the six months ﬁgures
to EUR1.3 billion operating investment results. Our assumption for the plan was about
EUR100 million to EUR150 million lower index. So, this is deﬁnitely a positive compared to
the assumption that we have put in our outlook.
And now let's come to page 19, life business, I'm very pleased with the performance of
our life operations and this is a strong performance across all KPIs, maybe we can start
from the present value new business premium, which is up 70%. Here, we have a couple
of eﬀects, which I'm going to speak in a second. But even if you remove these eﬀects, the
growth rate or the present value of new business premiums is 36%. Now, you might say
that's easy because last year we had the coﬀee situation, which was bringing down the
production. But I can also tell you that the adjusting number is higher compared to the
production that we had in 2019.
So, I know you're concern was always are you going to be able to do the product changes
and still get the production in the system? And this is a proof that we have been able to
do so. On top of it, we're managing very aggressively our in-force business. So, in Italy, we
have been able to renegotiate a large contract of EUR2.6 billion with better condition.
And also in France, we are oﬀering to our customer, the new product -- we think the new
product is more suitable to the current environment, so we are basically bringing in-force
costumer into the new solution that's also a good event. When you look at the new
business margin is for the quarter above our target of 3% and then all segments have
contributed both to the growth of the production and also to the improvement of the

Page 8 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

margin. So, that's a pretty good performance across all business line within the life
segment.
At Page 21, the operating proﬁt is 30% above the prior period level. Here we have
basically two main drivers. One is the increase of the loading and fees of 6% and this
reﬂects the growth also in the unit-linked business. We've been able to grow reserves
signiﬁcantly in our unit-linked business. On top of it, the investment margin is over EUR1
billion. There is a part of stabilization compared to what we saw last year, but also we said
this level of investment margin is even better than our expectations. That's because the
markets are extremely favorable and benign at this point in time.
Also, you don't see this in the numbers because we are always including the commission
in our space[ph] picture, but if you remove the commission from the expense line, in
reality, we are managing expenses on a ﬂat level. So, basically, we have a combination of
increasing loading also better investment margin expenses are ﬂat. So, this is deﬁnitely
good for the operating proﬁt development. And then on the right-hand side of the chart,
you see that all lines of business have contributed to the growth in operating proﬁt. So, a
very good picture for the segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

At Page 23, we are showing as always the numbers for the selected entities. Overall, the
new business margins are increasing are stable, the majority of OEs with adjusted few
exceptions. And then when you look at the operating proﬁt, we see a nice strong spring in
operating proﬁts at Allianz life USA. This is not surprising last year, the volatility was
higher, this year the volatility is very low. So, automatically you see a very strong
performance in the United States.
Italy, it's a very good story, we're approaching the $100 million of operating proﬁt per
quarter, and that's because the unit-linked business is really doing very nicely in Italy. And
then in Asia Paciﬁc, as always, you see that there is fundamentally a growth trajectory, not
only the products, or in the VMB[ph], but also in the operating proﬁt.
So, overall the strong picture when you look at the delivery for the single entities. And
now at Page 25, the investment margin is strong at 21 basis points. You know that our
expectation was to have a new business and investment managing between 70, 75 basis
points for the year. So, we want it deﬁnitely higher than that. You can see the current yield
is very strong at 95 basis points here we have the same explanation like for the P&C
business, the dividend that we're getting out of our equity investment is pretty strong
compared to what we had last year. You can see that we are constantly reducing the
guarantee level.
So overall this translates in a good investment margin, even if we didn't have any
meaningful contribution coming from the net harvesting. You see the net harvesting is
really low at 1 basis point. So, I think the number of 21 basis point is a good number. The
quality of the number is even better because basically there is no support coming from
net harvesting. So, overall very good performance on the -- in the life segment both with
respect to the new business and also to the operating proﬁt. And especially, I think we are

Page 9 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

getting conﬁrmation that the actions that we put in place are paying oﬀ. And we see that
(inaudible) forward.
At page 27, asset management also the underlying performance is strong. We had again a
quarter with the record level of assets under management, but we decided not to use the
headline again. What is more important is that all asset classes and regions are
contributing to the growth of our third-party assets under management. So, that's a
stronger picture that shows also that's all strategies are performing.
And when you go then to page 29, on the inﬂows, we had for the quarter EUR26 billion of
inﬂows. This time you see very strong inﬂows at AGI and that's the highest level of inﬂows
for a quarter at AGI. And AGI has been able over the last six months to record EUR30
billion of inﬂows. In the case of PIMCO, the inﬂows are EUR9 billion. They look relatively
small compared to what we are used to, but here we need to recognize that we had an
outﬂow of a large mandate of about EUR18 billion with very low fee. So fundamentally,
there is no real impact on the revenues or on the proﬁtability. And we have just basically
the inﬂows of PIMCO for these outﬂows you are back basically to the EUR25 billion-plus of
inﬂows that we are used to.

Bloomberg Transcript

When you look at the composition, the inﬂows by asset class region, you see also that
every class has contributed to the development and also you see that we are getting
more inﬂows in the mutual fund, which is usually good from a performance point of view
because we have a higher fee margin in the mutual funds business.
A ﬁnal comment, over the last 12 months, I like to see sometimes things on a 12-month
perspective, on a rolling perspective, we have been able to record EUR120 billion of
inﬂows, which is a very strong number, and also if you look at the quarterly development
in total was pretty much consistent quarter-per-quarter. So, a good trend for the asset
management operation.
And now coming to Page 31. Clearly, assets under management and the inﬂows are doing
well. You're going to see also increase in the revenue, which is 16% if you adjust for the
ﬁxed (inaudible) event over the 20% level and both PIMCO and AGI have contributed to
the nice growth in revenue. One driver as said before is clearly the increase in assets
under management, but the other driver also at least for the quarter, you see an improved
fee margin, the improved fee margins across sequential better business mix.
And then at Page 33, as always when the revenue are growing, you get also extra and
additional growth regarding the proﬁt. You don't get adjusted growth because of the
revenue increase, but also because of the operational leverage. So, all in all, we're getting
to a very good growth rate of 29% for asset management. And if you remove the
exchange rate, which is being kind of negative because of the U.S. dollar depreciation, we
would have had even a 40% -- about 40% growth.
Both PIMCO and AGI are contributing to the growth in operating proﬁt. The cost-income
ratio for the segment is about 59% and one of the major drivers for the improvement is
the big reduction in the cost-income ratio of AGI. In total, the segment is posting EUR1.6
Page 10 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

billion of operating proﬁt for the six months. If you remember, the outlook was EUR2.8
billion. So, at this point in time, if the markets are staying stable, we are going clearly to
expect to see in the second part of the year, at least, a performance that we saw in the ﬁrst
part of the year because we're also starting from a higher asset basis. So, very good news
regarding the underlying performance of our asset management operation.
And now moving to Page 53, it's enough to say on the copyrights operating proﬁt that the
numbers are better than prior period and they're also better compared to our
expectation. And then at Page 37, as always, we are showing the non-operating items.
There are no major development, maybe just a couple of comments. The impairments are
very low. We are basically not seeing impairments in the system and the structural
experiences more or less in line with the amount of the structural experiences we had last
year. And then ﬁnally, the tax rate is 25% is in line with our expectations. So, the
combination of the strong operating proﬁts and also of a favorable below-the-line
development is leading to a net income of EUR2.2 billion for the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, all in all, at Page 39 I think we have really a stronger delivery for the six months. It's
also nice to watch that the delivery is being consistent between Q1 and Q2. So, we're not
jumping up and down so there is a consistency of delivery. That's basically something that
if you go back and look at our performance last year, you are trying to adjust for the
COVID noise was already developing about a year ago. So, that's deﬁnitely a reﬂection of
the stronger action that we have been putting in place over the last years. And our
strategy is clearly delivering also the operating proﬁt performance that we would echo
even better than what our expectation was at the beginning of the year.
We have upgraded our outlook as you know to the upper half of the range. You're going
to ask me why not the upper end? We start with the upper half and then we see as we go
where we are going to end up. And then also we have today announced buyback. This is
something that we committed to do a few -- couple of -- two years ago, 2020 was last
year. So we committed to do last year then because of the COVID situation, we had to
clearly stop it. But there was always something that we wanted to return to you guys. It
was a commitment and so today we are coming true to our commitment. We have the
capital strength and also the underlying performance and so we are happy to stay true to
our commitment.
And with that, I would like to open up to the questions you might have.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our ﬁrst question from Peter Eliot
from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Page 11 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much. I guess the ﬁrst question, Oliver, you were quoted on the wires this
morning saying that you'll do everything to put this issue, the Structured Alpha Funds
issue behind you as quickly as possible. I mean, I guess DOJ inquiries can typically take
years. I'm just wondering, is it realistic to think that we can get clarity quickly? And maybe
related to that, is there any idea -- can we have any idea of when you might be in a
position to make a provision for it?
And secondly, just in terms of maybe providing some help on the numbers that we're
dealing with. I mean, you've given us $13 billion ﬁgure for the value of the funds at their
peak, and we know there are sort of $6 billion of claims. I'm just wondering, if there's
anything else you can give us in terms of numbers to help, narrow down a little bit, what
we're looking at. Maybe, what about the funds at the trough, for example, or anything
else that you can give us there to help us?
And then, just provide some relief from the Structured Funds issue. I was very interested
in the back-book or the in-force management, the two things that you've done. And, I was
wondering if you could say, what impact if any they might have on capital P&L balance
sheet, either within these results or going forward in the future? Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

Yes. So, thank you very much. Let me answer it right away, and then I'll hand over for the
details of back-books, I can make a general comment on that. So unfortunately, we are so
strictly guarded by U.S. law that I'm not asked, but ordered not to comment on anything.
And we are following the proceedings of the DOJ, we are not driving them, they drive it
and it can take their time. But we are an active participant, we're not just following it, yes,
we are in there and working with them very closely, so we'll do whatever it can be done to
create clarity.
The second thing, we cannot make any comments on the numbers. It's just not possible,
but remember there are two components to it, there's the civil litigation and there's the
DOJ investigation and that may have diﬀerent timelines, so if and when we have anything
to say, we are going to do that as much as possible. We know how diﬃcult your job is to
be done at, but again I would like to put that into perspective and it sounds a bit odd.
And I'm no more the CFO, so Giulio will forgive me for my a bit crude math.
Okay. Before this thing happened, Allianz was not in my opinion, fully value close to
where it should be valued, right? So, any decent analysis shows that our PE has not
expanded the last two or three years, even though, we've been outperforming
operationally almost any peer. So, when you then look at sort of what the market has
discounted in terms value, you may say that is correct or that is too much, but you have to
say, what level it actually came down from and that was not a very high level, the ﬁrst one.
And if you compare that to a number of the KPIs you see in the current six months result,
we have a 13% ROE in life insurance, can you tell me any company with this book and this
size? And so it has 13% ROE in life insurance? I don't know any. You have any other

Page 12 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

insurance company that has a world-leading asset management franchise, we're probably
the number two active asset manager in the world now. They're not -- this is not reﬂected
in our numbers. P&C still is subdued by natural catastrophes and still have the run of the
commercial lines performance. This is the strongest fortress that exist in Europe. That's not
in our share price.
So if you think about what's happening, and even what happened, the cash ﬂow
generation power is up to EUR30 billion in the next three years, whatever it is. So what the
heck are we talking about? So I understand the nervousness and I know some investors
can't invest as long as we have in an investigation, but if you think about the underlying
value power, and we are starting a process where this industry will consolidate, and I'm
absolutely convinced with the strategy that we are pursuing what you see the additive
growth in the segments is very strong.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second thing, I'd like to say, the concern that people have was the life insurance
business, when interest rates went down last year, they're all another shock for life
insurance, and these people will make no more money, the product will be horriﬁc for
clients. They will be horriﬁc for shareholders because of the capital requirements. It's
nonsense, it's true for the average temperature of the hospital. That's very true, the week
competitors have a problem to meet the guarantees. They have a problem to produce
good results, but ask some of your peers, Allianz is not just giving great margin. It is also
oﬀering in many markets the best value that you can get as a consumer, and that will
make us win, sorry for being very conﬁdent. But that is what is required at this point in
time.
So when you're ﬁlling your spreadsheet, remember we're not starting with a 15 PE that
we're coming down from, yes, we are starting with a 12 PE, and that's why, I have a lot of
optimism. And, I'm not ignoring the downside that such an investigation there, but I'm
just trying to put it into perspective, sorry to say. And therefore the relief on the backbook is a speciﬁc question. We have said the number of years ago with the launch of the
strategy that we are fundamentally changing the new business into products that are
more capital eﬃcient, but also better for consumers and you see this in this cycle,
because we can oﬀer higher upside and diversiﬁcation into new asset classes would
probably one of the leading investors in alternative assets that provide diﬀerent sources
of income than ﬁxed income or buying I don't know what Tesla oﬀers you on the shortterm, right? So getting decent long-term sustainable returns. That's one thing.
We've also said that we are going to address the enormous capital consumption on the
guaranteed business. Now you can say and go out and say, hey I'm selling a back-book
huge run to somebody and we're getting rid of the problem now, small problem, you
have clients in there that we promised too many years ago, that we would be their
partner. So, we're not taking this lightly, number one. Number two, as we've just seen in
Italy with the transaction, it takes much longer, but it's much more economically
successful. If you renegotiate contract, not sell them at a loss and say, I just sold my loss,
and this is what we've done in Italy. Taking a traditional product with the 1.5% guarantee,
which is not high, by the way, by Italian standard but still far to high relative to what is
economically sustainable, and move it to a zero guarantee, and these things generate
hundreds of million of additional value and Giulio give you the number. So we are
Page 13 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

pursuing the strategy and we are committed to lift capital out of these back-books. But in
a way, that makes sure, that all stakeholders, as much as possible are being dealt with in
the fairway.

FINAL

And with that, I hand over to Giulio.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you, Oliver. Your question speciﬁcally on what we did in the second quarter in Italy,
it's a renegotiation of a EUR2.6 billion of the group business. Just to give an idea, we
brought down the under guarantee for 1.5 to 0, so that's a big change. Clearly, there is
always a trade-oﬀ, we allow now to put some new business for the next two or three years.
But fundamentally, it's very, very positive transaction.

Bloomberg Transcript

And when you look at Italy and France, we have basically oﬀering to our post customers,
the new products and the new product has more unit length component compared to the
old products. It's a win-win situation, from our standpoint clearly, there is a less risk but
also from a customer point of view, it's not necessarily good to be at the product with zero
guarantee credit and basically very, very little. So, from that point of view, also the
customers they like now solution, where they can get more exposure to unit-linked
business.
When you look at the impacts on our numbers that I tell you that the present value of
proﬁt or I would say more correct to say the present value of the IVA, because every time
we speak about VNB or some similar matter we are speaking our present value of IVA is
about EUR100 million. And why I say IVA instead of proﬁt, the proﬁtability might not
change signiﬁcantly, but the risk is very diﬀerent in them when you look at the CR release,
we are speaking about EUR50 million with CR here release when you combine Italy and
France. We are going to pursue similar initiative as we go into the future, so we are clearly
looking for a similar negotiation in Italy, we are clearly this action in France is going to be
performed also for the foreseeable -- for the future quarters. And then, in parallel we're
still working on the more traditional back-books. But the message here is, when we speak
about that book, it doesn't necessarily mean, that we need to sell a back-book that is also
reworked, let's say where we call it that we can do in order to improve the performance or
to mitigate the risk that we have in our in-force business.
This said, I'd like to stress again the point of Oliver Baete. We are making 13% ROE. So,
again we have any way very good performing life business, clearly we want to make sure
that this book of business is perform as much -- as best as possible. So, we want really to
create as much sustainability as possible, but the fact is that it's our life business has
generated double-digit ROE over the last years.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you very much, Giulio and Oliver. Could I just very quickly ask, what
the other side of the Italy deal? As I -- what you're giving away to get that guarantee
reduction?

Page 14 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

No. The only point is, we are allowing the counterparty to put new business for a few
years.

FINAL

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

But it has the CapEx per annum that is clearly captured of, they cannot put a huge amount
of premiums in that. Now, the reason you will ask why is this possible? In the Italian
pension law, there is an explicit provision that says in interest rates drop to a certain point
in market conditions as you can renegotiate and you can even exit the contract. So this is
a highly valuable client, a set of clients, but we wanted to make sure that we get to a more
even distribution of upside and downside.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the other point I'd like to mention is, that we'll discuss probably more intensively at
the Capital Markets Day that with what we're doing, we're not just looking at increasing
ROE or reducing risk capital. We're actually also trying to reduce the volatility and the
potential volatility of the capital requirements, which is super important, because today
investors are spooked by the life back-books for two reasons. One the value ROEs, which
by the way, in our case is not the case, like many others. But because of the volatility in the
Solvency II models that you constantly see out of these liabilities. They're often in my
opinion a bit mathematical fake, but they are real because we show them. Not because
they are there, but they are part of the model.
Now with that, we have the intention over the next years to systematically reduce the risk
capital consumption and the volatility while growing earnings. That's been our vision for a
while. And every time I thought we're turning the corner, interest rates dropped yet again.
Wait for the end of the year, and this is where we are on route to really, totally decouple
capital consumption from the growth of the underlying earnings and that is the objective
we are pursuing, so this will become over time more protection business and more an
asset management business rather than they strongly capital consumptive business that
you're used to. This is the strategic objective and it has taken more time, because every
time you improve, you get another hit on rates, but that's it. Yes, this year we'll show you
the turning point.
Now with that let's go if it's okay to the next question.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Please go
ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Oh, hi, there. Also appreciate you restricted what you can say, you did make comments at
the press conference this morning just about the process of investigation on the
Structured Alpha. Could you just clarify comments this morning and in the footnote of the
report that an investigation has been ongoing since July or the footnote implies you've
just started a new investigation, internally post the DOJ intervention. I just try to
Page 15 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

understand how long -- to give us a sense of timing, how long you have been internally
investigating this topic? That's my only question on that topic.
Second question, I'm just trying to interpret the buyback being switched back on. You talk
about it in terms of ﬁlling a promise which essentially was related to the 2019 ﬁnancial
year. But, should we assume that we are back onto, I guess bolt-on plus buyback as the
kind of ongoing capital deployment strategy? Or is that over-interpreting that the
message? And just the ﬁnal topic is Giulio, you just give us an update on frequency and
severity trends in non-life in your core markets? Thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So maybe I start from the ﬁrst one, which was the question about our investigation
review. We started a review already last year. So, basically we set up a cross functional
team last year, also with the support of external legal and economic advisor to look into
the product performance, or the reviews have been ongoing. But recently we have started
also a forensic review, but clearly we've been looking to this issue now, for a long time
and now we are doing a forensic review. So we'll not be sitting here just watching where it
ends and check the status of what we've been doing, and we're going to continue clearly
to do the review forensic review, and then clearly we are cooperating also with the DOJ
with the SEC. So, that's about what we're doing from our side.
And on the buyback, I can tell you, at the end of the day, not this change in the sense of
not going to make forward-looking statements about what -- when the next buyback
might be. But as always we look at our underlying performance, we look at the capital
position that we have and the capital position is ﬁnancially a underlying performance,
market development, we might have also clearly to digest some impact coming from the
issue we are talking about, but based on where we are going to be, we're going to clearly
decide our capital deployment. So there is no change in our philosophy moving forward.
I think the positive is, we are generating strong capital, right? We have a capital
generation per annum of, I would say, 10 percentage point. So from that point of view, I
think this is clearly something that give us ﬂexibility. Also, as Oliver said before, we have
been calling some hybrid, which means now we have also ﬂexibility on the ﬁnancial
hybrid point of view. So there are a lot of things we can deploy clearly from a capital point
of view and also from a liquidity point of view. So again, nothing is changing and we are
going to evaluate the situation as we go through the next quarter, we go through next
year.
On the frequency severity, I can tell you motto is always a little bit complicated to look at
the statistics. In the sense of last year, what we saw was basically that as the frequency was
coming down, the severity was coming and going up. And now you see a little bit of a
reverse as the frequency clearly is going up. Because we see higher frequency, you can
see the severity coming down. If you ask me for a forward-looking statement of frequency
severity, the overall expectation will be once COVID is behind us, right? That's -- you're
going to see a reality lower frequency in general, because there are a lot of things
pushing frequency down, improvements in the driving assistance system.

Page 16 of 29



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

And on the other side, the severity is going to go up, because clearly cars are becoming
more expensive. But as on now, I would say, you basically almost see that as frequency is
going up again the severity is coming down. When I look at the property and I know
business, I tell you that I was looking at the statistics in Italy, France and the -- and also
U.K., I couldn't see a lot of increasing severity. When country, where we see some increase
in severity is in Germany and that's related to the fact that overall the value of the house is
going up and also right now there is the cost of wood or even the cost of getting a repair
is going up. So, we see a little bit of severity going up in Germany that's something that
we are watching.
You need to keep in mind that there is automatic system of adjust inﬂation in the price,
clearly, you might have a basis risk eﬀect, but fundamentally the price of the property
policy knows this kind of automatic adjustment if inﬂation going up. So, all-in-all, when I
look at frequency severity, I will say that it's rare to see a situation where both frequency
severity are going up at the same time cause a problem. So most of the time you might
see a setting situation and I will say, there is at this point in time not signiﬁcant pressure
coming from the loss trends in our diﬀerent stories.

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

If the question probably answered on the investigation, because that's very important for
you to understand, Andrew.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Yes. I think so. I'm still a bit confused as to why -- as to there was an ongoing investigation.
But clearly if you (Multiple Speakers) --

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

Yes. Let me repeat. Let me repeat. No, no, no. It's -- yes, yes. Well, that's why important
that I follow-up on your question. So when the lawsuit came in, we immediately started an
investigation because the lawsuit assumes, yes, there or pretends to say that the fund
underperformed relative to expectations, because it was not clear, it was as risky as it
turned out to be, so we hired experts into the economic assessment, but also the legal
assessment from the very day and in very quickly the SEC came in, and we have been
working side by side not in addition with the SEC on all of these things.
And then as of May, the DOJ came in and looked at some additional items and we've also
been working with them side-by-side voluntarily on these items side-by-side is also
important. And based on that and also that these items we have additionally launched
internal forensic review and a number of additional methods that go beyond the
economic performance and I think that's why. So we have neither been complacent nor
late no other, it's just that the matter and the viewpoints have changed and we have done
additional items on top of the additional work. I'm looking at my Chief Legal Counsel
who's sitting next to me and I'm looking and he says, yes, but now shut up.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Page 17 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Okay. That's great. Thanks. Giulio, can I just follow-up. Are you formally changing the
guidance on capital generation from 8% to 10% plus --

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

FINAL

No.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Or is that just for this year?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, okay. I will say that there is a high likelihood that we're going to change the guidance
also for next year, because this year we're going to be about 10%. And, I will say next year
assuming that we're going to see higher growth in the property casualty compared to
what we saw this year, I would not go about 10%, but I think there is a high likelihood that
we're going to lend to a 10% capital generation. I can also tell you that on the life
business, basically there is zero capital increase because they even put a lot of new
business, this is very low capital intensive. And, that's the capital intensive is completely
oﬀset. Just talk to you this year, let's forget about the VNB, which is deﬁnitely then helping
take up the generation. Do just speak on SCR, because of new business is completely
oﬀset by the release of the in-force.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

And this is a very important point, Andrew. What our objective is for the next few years, is
really to make Solvency II over time less and less, and less of a relevant issue for us to
really guide. It will always be important as a regulatory standpoint in terms of capital
distribution, the objective is to come less and less dependent on the number, and the
volatility of it. That is has been the objective now. That plumbing [ph] rate and COVID
hasn't really helped to achieve that objective faster, but it's a very important objective for
us. Now because we really believe it's a key part for the valuation of this company.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

All right. Very good.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Michael Huttner from Bernberg. Please go
ahead.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fantastic. I stay away from you of this. So on cash, you gave some really interesting kind of
numbers I think EUR9 billion a year or EUR10 billion a year and last ﬁgures we've seen I
Page 18 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

think was EUR10.3 billion or EUR10.3 billion average. So just wondering, if you can say
what -- where this increase coming from? And then the second question is on the asset
ﬂows. So, we have two one-oﬀs, one negative, I think in PIMCO and one positive energy in
AGI. I wonder if you can give a little bit more detail about the AGI positive. What is the
NATO, the proﬁtability or I know you can't say the client but anything which would help
here?
And the last point, I know you've been -- you've said severity and property but net caps
are a lot higher and I know you don't include a kind of budget ﬁgure you just say, well,
historically has been around that level. But are you going to be raising pricing, because I
imagine you'll be paying your reinsurers more. For example, in the EUR400 million ﬁgure
for the funds you've got, a EUR100 million reinstatement premium? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So maybe starting from the ﬁrst point, I think Oliver was referring to net income on
EUR9 billion from a cash point of view, you know our numbers and usually you can use
the sort of process that 80% of our net income is going to translate into cash, so that this
would be the relationship that you can hold if you want to use it all the time.
As we come into the second question, which was the ﬂows at AGI, I can tell you, its pretty
widespread. So we see, for example, good ﬂows coming, ﬁxed income, inequity and also
multi-assets, so from that point of view, when you look at the diﬀerent asset classes all are
contributing. Of course, when you look at the regional contribution, you see good
contribution coming from Europe, but also from the U.S. and Asia Paciﬁc and we see also
-- because sometimes you can look at ﬂows from a production point of view, where the
strategies are developed, and then you can see look at ﬂows, where the distribution is
taking place. So we see also from a distribution point of view good growth in Asia. And
regarding the proﬁtability, cannot give you the number, but it's overall very proﬁtable
ﬂows, we had maybe a larger mandate, where they clearly the fee is going to be over, but
fundamentally when we are looking at the proﬁtability of the ﬂows, I would say it's really
good.
And then your third question about increasing premium because of natural catastrophe
that might happen, then as always is a matter of what the competitive environments might
be, but, I will say from a technical point of view, one might argue that's deﬁnitely
something that we're going to look to do to a certain degree. But, at the end of the day as
always price increases are also a function words in general, the market is going to do.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

And just on -- thank you so much. On the -- this net inﬂow at HEI. So, that's what I'm really
saying is, what's the number, I can model or but it's not the way. What is the ﬁgure now as
of kind of almost made to Q3?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Well, I can tell you that in the ﬁrst -- in the month of July was about -- for AGI was about $2
billion, the ﬂows for AGI.
Page 19 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

(inaudible). I hear silence, I'd better leave it then. Thank you.

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Okay. Michael, are you ﬁne with the answers or anything else.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

I didn't hear the PIMCO ﬁgures, if there is question.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Sorry, what is the question?

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

The question, the net inﬂows in PIMPCO in July?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. That's about, okay, there was as of -- a little bit before the end of July, there was
about EUR5 billion.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Basically, you can almost say, when you add up AGI and PIMPCO, you can almost say, is
about a EUR1 billion.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

EUR1 billion. That's fantastic. Super. Thank you very, very much.

Operator
We will now take our next question from William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you very much. First of all, Oliver and Giulio, the SCR in your asset management
business is about a EUR1 billion and particularly, in light of what's going on there, feels like
an extremely low number against EUR1.8 trillion of funds under management. And you
seem to be allocating all to operational risk, not much for market risk, clearly, for a fund
manager, there's going to be a gray area between market risk and operational risk. But,
I'm just wondering, can you remind us how you get to the EUR1 billion ﬁgure? And do you
think that maybe a number that you need to review, in particularly, in the context of the
current experience?
Page 20 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

And then, secondly please. You highlighted in your life business, this is another quarter of
an incredibly strong investment margin. I think you still oﬃcially were talking about sort of
70 basis points to 75 basis points. I think it was the last thing you said and you'll still at sort
of, mid-80s you're signiﬁcantly above that. Again, you said something in the call, but can
you just, remind us are we at this more elevated level structurally? Or is it going to
normalize down to that 70 basis points to 75 basis points this year or next year and if it
dose normalize down, what's the driver of that?
And then lastly please, you ﬂagged in the presentation, the 9 percentage points impact
on the Solvency II ratio from the various transactions you've been doing. Could you just
remind us how much of that comes from the SCR going up and how much from the
eligible own funds going down? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes. So maybe starting from the ﬁrst question, ﬁrst of all, the way we do the calculation of
the ACR, for the group, we are using the Solvency II -- according to the Solvency II by the
way, principle is for the sectoral on funding this year, so which means basically what is
non-insurance, we use whatever regulation you have applied to those sectors. So for the
banking, we are going to use basically what is a revelation for banking and in the case of
asset management, we are using whatever regulation is for asset management, which is
this year is a percentage of the expensive. So it's not that we are coming up with any kind
of special model, we have any kind of Allianz way to calculate ACR for asset management
and this is coming from the framework Solvency II the test you includes the asset
managers with whatever regulation you have for asset management. So that's the way it
works. And then clearly we are going to hold a reality more capital compared to what the
requirements is. But again it's not something that is up for deliberation or matches here,
you are going to include in your Solvency II model.
The second question was on the investment management on the life side. I would say that
we have been running now for a couple of quarters at performance, which is higher
compared to our original expectations 70 basis points to 75 basis points. We need
anywhere to consider also the volatility in the United States is pretty low. So, they might
have a little bit of a lift that I will not necessarily always consider in that KPI. But, I would
tell you that at least I would say that it's realistic to expect that, we'll be at the upper end
of the range of 70 basis point to 75 basis point as we move forward. So, that's something
that I would feel comfortable to say today, whether we are now at a 80 basis point, I think
that's a -- I would like to see more evidence, as we go through more quarters to make a
statement like that, but they have 75 basis point, the (inaudible) might be more indicative
of what the range might be.
And then, when you think about the impacts on the 9% coming from the acquisition that
we do, the majority is coming reality from their own funds. There is not a lot of SCR that
we are going to add there. But if I should have a short area with respect to be like twothirds coming from their own-funds, and one-third is even less may be coming from the
ACR increase.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}
Page 21 of 29



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Right. Thank you. If I could come back to, Giulio, I appreciate what you said about the SCR
for asset management being largely a regulatory ﬁgure. Correct me if I'm wrong, the
eligible own funds and correct me if I'm wrong, I think they're still only about EUR2 billion.
So it's not as if you have disproportionate coverage to allow for a risk that isn't taken in
the regulatory model. So I'm wondering, have I correctly understood that EUR2 billion of
eligible own funds. And if I have, is that a reﬂection of the capital and the cash position of
your asset management business? Or is there sort of somehow bigger capital or cash
position in your asset management entities?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes, I would day, with the EUR2 billion is relatively, no, so EUR2 billion, you are correct. I
would like to say that's also what you need to keep for S&P to have a AA rating. So, you
can debate whether it is only EUR2 billion and just it is twice the ACR. And that's also what
basically gives you an AA rating on the S&P.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}

Got it. Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We will now take our next question from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, everybody and congratulations on the (inaudible) play. Just going to your Investor
Capital Markets Day, how are you going to frame targets in this day. Have you decided
whether it's going to be some of IFRS cash or Solvency II. And I only asked because on
the comments that you made about how you believe you're undervalued, I mean should
we be really sharpening our focus on Solvency II numbers here to try and understand
that? Secondly, going to your debt headroom, can you just give us an update of the -- if
you needed it for whatever reason, what the headroom would be? And lastly going back
to AGCS and the very strong volume decline which is over 20% obviously, is this still just
pulling out of liability lines? Or is it something else and when does it end? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes. So your ﬁrst question about the Capital Market Day, clearly we are still going to be
focused on IFRS number, because at the end of the day, these are the numbers that we
discuss every quarter, so clearly there is a little bit of a challenge because of the IFRS 9
and 17 implementation. Within that we are not going to see major changes because of
that. So, IFRS is going still to be a way how we communicate our targets. We're going
anyways, also to put focus on cash generation at the end of the day, the doubtful
accounts, how much cash are you able to generate or capital that you can generate, and
Page 22 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

deploy it and buybacks on M&A. So, fundamentally, we're going to have deﬁnitely a
session related to capital and cash generation. And, especially, on the life side, we want to
show also like, for example, the Allianz's Lebanese is capable to produce very stable cash
ﬂow, cash ﬂow generation and also growing cash ﬂow generation. So, this is going to be
something that we're going to talk about in the Capital Market Day.
Then the other question was on -- oh, the debt capacity. I would say, we have deﬁnitely
signiﬁcant debt capacity. So as of now, as of today, I think our leverage ratio is about 22%
and clearly you can go easily to 25%, 26%. We have been just a few years at 27%, 28%
leverage ratio. So from that point of view, the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility that we have on the
ﬁnancial leverage is pretty high. We also like to preserve it. But in the case, we need to
use it. We are going to use it.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then on AGCS, I think your question was speciﬁcally on liability but I can give you a
little bit more color in general on AGCA -- on AGCS. I would say, as on now, in a liability,
we are not really growing, but that's an area where clearly cautiously we're going to look
at growth again. Also, I would say an area where we see less growth, but that's because of
the strong, the underwriting that we did last year is in Marine and (inaudible), where we
see growth and we are very encouraged by what we are seeing is in ﬁnancial eyes and
also in property and just to give you an idea in this lines of business in the six months, we
have been able to post combined ratio below -- even below 90%, 90% on the property
side is also because the neck head is low, there's been pretty be nice.
So overall, we see some growth in some area, but clearly there are other areas where with
the underwriting was extremely strong. As we move forward we are deﬁnitely going to
look also at potential for additional growth. At this point in time, we believe rates are
pretty good, then you need to be always selective, clearly you need to have always strong
underwriting. But fundamentally, we are at a point, where we believe that our -- the
underwriting action and our cleansing has been successful. The management team is
getting more and more conﬁdence as the numbers are ﬂowing through. So I would say
that as we move forward, as we go into 2022, we are going deﬁnitely also to have a
growth agenda and that's also consistent with what we always said. We always said, look,
before we start growing, we want to have a good degree of conﬁdence that the level of
proﬁtability is going -- is go in the right direction.

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

Yes. Let me reiterate what Giulio just said. It is more about -- not about numbers it also
about conﬁdence. So I -- we are very pleased with the progress that we've seen in AGCS,
and that's a bit math by two factors. We had some follow-on on COVID from last year and
some policies that are only tapering oﬀ in the ﬁrst half of the year, sort of entertainment,
for example. And the other part is, they also have some eﬀects this year from natural
catastrophe. So, some of the ﬂood exposures, they will also get hit by. I'm still conﬁdent
that they will make their 98% target unless we have a sort of brutal second half of the year,
which is no small achievement given what we've seen. And just to reiterate, what Giulio
said, we now need to change the tag and make sure, after we've cleaned the portfolio
that we take advantage of one of the hardest markets that we've seen probably in a
decade and we don't miss, but we wanted to make sure that before we write something,

Page 23 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

we know exactly what to write and how to write it, but they're making a very, very good
progress.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks. If I just quickly can return on your comment on the CMD targets. You said that
IFRS 17 won't make a big diﬀerence. Do you mean philosophically or numerically?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I don't think it's going to make a big diﬀerence. So we are already doing runs based on
IFRS 17. So we don't see a signiﬁcant diﬀerence. But I was -- I want to just to say,
fundamentally, the IFRS 9 and 17 might represent a complication, because you need to
think on a diﬀerent accounting standard. But based on what we have seen so far, we will
not expect in our case to have a signiﬁcant diﬀerence. But, you're learning every day
something, something, that's the reason why, I would tend to be cautious and always say,
there is a new standard coming up. So that's clearly creating some complexity, but
fundamentally, I think that should be manageable.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Good luck with that. Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Vinit Malhotra with Mediobanca. Please go
ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Thank you very much for the questions. Just -- sir, the two questions
I would raise is, one is, just on this topic of growth and conﬁdence. We are hearing these
are very positive, we assume that in life and health resurgence in growth and in P&C, the
resurgence in growth in 2Q, I can see where that coming from. But I mean last year, I think
the messaging was that growth will be a bit subdued this year. And, I think it's coming
back a bit more, we've seen it in other insurance supporting in the U.S. as well, the
economy as such. So I mean, of course, you talked about AGCS just now but generally,
should we be feeling more bullish about P&C growth as such this year maybe even a bit
more next year, so, I'm just curious to hear your thoughts on P&C growth?
Second thing is, you reiterated the AGC&S target, but also Germany had fantastic
combined ratio supported by a runoﬀ in 2Q. Could you comment a bit about that as well,
I'm sure there are other things as well positive in Germany. But if it is -- where these
runoﬀs coming from? And get a more buﬀer there, so even the 3Q ﬂooding, for example,
so just in any idea on the buﬀer there?

Page 24 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

And last to give more follow-up and apologize for not being attentive enough. Where
Oliver, did you just say that the DOJ investigation or request or warranty request for
documents both received in May, whereas I think from the press releases that read last
Sunday, we thought or I thought it just came in. So I'm just curious just as a follow-up from
the timing of these events, please? Thank you.

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

Yes. And thank you for the question. As I said earlier I have a really, really strong and
really, really, really, really strict Chief Legal Accounts who next to me and he said whatever
we said earlier is the only thing we can say. I do apologize. Yes, but there is no delay on
nothing, we are just following it through. All right?

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. For your question, maybe start from the growth rate, the ﬁrst of all, sure we're going
to see more, more, more growth also coming from Allianz partners to a certain degree
may be more on the NPE basis and so much on the gross basis also from (inaudible). And
when we are looking at the geography, I will say, that yes, as the situation is further
stabilizing, we might see also more growth in other geography.
When we speak about growth in property casualty, I'm always anyway very cautious, very
easy to grow and then you can regulate one day. So it's all a matter of whether you have
quality growth or not. And quality growth is always going to be a function of the pricing
environment. So from that point of view, I would say, the trends, I would expect that we're
going to go back to the growth that we had before COVID. If you remember, we were
running at a 3% to 4% growth. I believe that's our natural growth capacity or capabilities.
But again, at the end of the day growth for me is, always a function of the other pricing
environments.
Coming then back to your question on Germany. Yes, I tell you Germany has a very strong
balance sheet and it's also consequence that we have been kind of cautious, so always
told you also last year and that we are being very cautious in booking our reserves. You
remember last year, we didn't release a signiﬁcant amount of runoﬀ, was also very low. So
fundamentally, there is a strong balance sheet and Germany is deﬁnitely one of the
company, where we have a lot of quality in the balance sheet, but even more important,
Germany is being one of the -- of our subsidiary having the one of the strongest
developments on the underline over the last year. So I'm very -- always very pleased when
I have meetings with our German team, because we are very structured and very focused
on driving our strategy, our agenda they have embraced that strategy.
You can see that the combined ratio there, target is much better compared to the
combined ratio that we had a few years ago. I can also tell your, Oliver has also explained,
always a lot of quality time with Germany likes to play with them and spend time with
them. So, I had to say, it's a nice development that's important for us because the Allianz
Page 25 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Germany, at the end of the day is almost 20% of our NPE on the property casualty size.
So, having strong German business is clearly very good starting point for the proﬁtability
of our property casualty segments.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much.

Operator
We will take our next question from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yes, thank you and good afternoon, Giulio. Good afternoon, all the way. Just a couple of
questions I have, if I may. First of all this EUR750 million buyback, I mean, how do we think
about this? Was it just coming as a regular capital management exercise? Or was it done
to showcase your conﬁdence from the capital regulators conﬁdence on the capital? So
that could be one.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second thing is, I mean, Giulio, you mentioned that we are going to ask you, why not
towards the EUR13 billion, why EUR12 billion to EUR13 billion? I mean, clearly you are
running, the current run rate is giving you EUR13.5 billion. So what are the elements that
will take it down from EUR13.5 billion. I mean one is clearly ﬂood losses. But is there any
other things that you would ﬂag that was very supportive in ﬁrst half, may not happen in
the second half?
And second -- and the third one is, the 93% combined ratio guidance you have for P&C
versus 93.5%, you are running at ﬁrst half and then you have the European ﬂood losses.
So I mean would you say that 93% is still achievable? Or would you say that might be on
the opportunistic side? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. So ﬁrst of all on the buyback of the $750 million, if you remember, we talked about
also the buyback in the ﬁrst -- in the call for the ﬁrst quarter, indeed one of your event put
headline the buyback is back, so from that point of view, you can see this is not something
that we have been thinking between Sunday evening and Thursday night, so that's
something that was basically in our thought process for a while. And as I said before,
there was part of the EUR1.5 billion that we committed. So that there was not any sort of
spontaneous decision a couple of days ago.
On your question about the projection for the remainder of the year, fundamentally, on
the P&C side is a little bit of all the amount of natural catastrophes that we're going to see.
So -- and also, I would say, so we need to clearly having started the second quarter with
the event of burns, we are little bit cautious, because we still have the hurricane season in
front of us. And then also, we'll say that the investment income is going to be higher than
planned, but in the second part of the year, we don't respect to that with the same level of
investment think and that we had in the ﬁrst part of the year. So fundamentally, I will not
Page 26 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

necessarily take the EUR2.9 billion of the ﬁrst quarter -- for the ﬁrst half and 2x two for the
property casualty side and we're going to see clearly what happens, but they will be
cautious in doing that.
On the light side, we have been run a EUR2.5 billion of operating proﬁt. Now you can do
this time two, if you believe that the markets are going to be always able, we need to be a
little bit cautious, and thinking that we might get some point in time. Some volatility
source from that one, we'll not necessarily do times two. And, in SMAs may reality is a very
good reason to do times two. I still wouldn't do that, just because of being a little bit pro
then, but at the end of the day I would say, yes, deﬁnitely, there is a possibility, markers
are very stable. If natural catastrophe are very, very -- they are pretty much frightening.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we move forward there is a possibility that we're going to end up with a second part of
the year, which is going to the ﬁrst part of the year. But, you need to make the assumption
that we're going to have another six months of very stable markets, and based on my
experience at some point in time you get a little bit of volatility. And this can take away
EUR00 million of proﬁt from our Life segment, this can dampen a little bit, the
development in the SMAs I mean. So, from that point of view, I would say, we had a very
good ﬁrst half, you can look at the numbers, you can deﬁnitely say there is strength in
underlying and then at the end of the year, we see where we are, but it looks like we are
heading for a good operating performance in 2021.
On the 93.4% combined ratio versus 93%, ﬁrst of all, my comment will be, if you just look
at the natural catastrophe at 3.1% for the six months, you just normalize that to the normal
level of tool, you can see that we are better than the 93%. So, from an underlying point of
view, I feel very conﬁdent about our ability to achieve the 93% and then the amount of
natural catastrophe, clearly can create a little bit of noise up and down. This doesn't
change for me. The fundamental fact that on the underlying basis, we are in 93% for sure.
And then if you're going to add a few more basis point, because of the natural
catastrophe in my opinion, this doesn't make any diﬀerence.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Very good. Thank you.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Okay. Before we continue its half past, we have time for one last question and then we
have to close the call. Tracy, one last question, please.

Operator
We will now take the last question from (inaudible) Leon from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.

Q - Analyst
Thank you. I'm lucky. I got the last one. Sorry, I got only three very quick questions. The
ﬁrst one is your U.S. life business, obviously, new business growth very, very strongly. Just
Page 27 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

wonder is that -- are you so actually taking shares in the market and more speciﬁcally
actually you do if you are a kind of increasing your shares there? And then secondly is just
very quickly, we know that you wanted to actually expand your footprint in the U.S.
especially in the P&C side, but will the whole kind of DOJ thing aﬀect or change your
views or change your risk assessment on the U.S. market in general?
And then the last one is the Solvency II market movement was zero actually year-to-date
for the ﬁrst half, which means the movement in the second half was negatively kind of
wipe out the whole kind of movement, positive movement in the ﬁrst quarter. I actually -but if I look at the interest rate is better than the beginning of the year, the equity market
is better than the beginning of the beginning of the year, and then the credit spread is
also kind of very stable. I just wonder actually, why we shouldn't see a positive year-todate kind of markets impact and what actually have I missed in those market movement?
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Maybe, starting from the last question, when you look at what's happening in the second
quarter, in reality, the market movement is just slightly negative. So, if you look at the
slides at Page 9, we have minus zero. If you run the calculation that you can access on the
own funds, that would be a negative impact of about 50 basis points. And the point is,
yes, rates have been kind of stable, and also the equity market has been okay. But, we
have also sensitivity to credit spread. In reality, there was a slight widening on the credit
spreads, on the government bonds and there was a little bit of a narrowing on the credit
spread on the corporate bonds, and we are exposed to negative -- to positive spread
widening in the corporate bonds, but we are really speaking of the very minor amount. So
basically, almost is also slightly negative, and if you are looking for the explanation, why
it's not being that completely neutral is because of the credit spreads development.
On your question about appetite in the United States for acquisition? I don't think there is
any change fundamentally to our strategy. I think we need to separate our strategy, our
underlying performance of (Technical Diﬃculty) to the situation that we have discussed,
but I wouldn't say that because of the action we are going to Y and Z.
And then to your ﬁrst question is about the market share in the United States. In order to
see whether we are growing or not in the United States, we need to wait to get the
statistics for the second quarter, which are not available yet. Maya, tell you, anyway about
what happened in the prior quarter, we are not necessarily growing market share and
ﬁxing this annuity. That's also line of business where we continue to be strong, but that's
not what we are putting the primary emphasis, we are emphasizing the IVA business or
which basically these hybrid VA, or register index annuity. And in that line of business, I
would expect and we have seen deﬁnitely good progress. And as we are putting the
more focus, I would expect that we are going to be one of the key players, we have also
launched a product for the advisory channel. So, I'm pretty conﬁdent that we're going to
see a good growth trajectory in our life business in the United States. But, with respect to
your speciﬁc question whether we are gaining market share and now we need to wait for
the statistics or the market.

Page 28 of 29



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

FINAL

You're welcome.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Okay. This concludes our call. Thanks to all of those who have joined. We wish you a very
nice remaining day and a nice weekend.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you guys.

A - Oliver Baete

{BIO 15740270 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. Thank you. And bye-bye.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 29 of 29

