Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy Parsons , Group Chief Financial Officer
David Louis Richardson, Group Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Larissa Van Deventer, Analyst
Louise Miles , Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

I'm sure you've all had to do virtual meetings by now, but please bear with us should
anything unexpected happens. In terms of running order today, I'll open our discussion
with a summary of the strong progress we've made during 2020. Andy will go through the
results in more detail, and afterwards I'll return with some concluding remarks. We will, of
course, have plenty of time at the end for your questions.
Before I start our results presentation, I want to take a moment to recognize the
outstanding contribution of my colleagues across the group over the past 12 months.
They've shown immense agility and determination to accommodate a very challenging
personal and professional period to ensure the service we provide to our customers has
not missed a beat. On behalf of the entire Board, I'd like to thank them.
Now I'd like to start by summarizing our performance in the last year. 2020 has been a
very successful year. Against the tougher backdrops, I'm extremely pleased with our
achievements. We have executed our strategy, met on promises, and we have reached a
major landmark in the group's history by achieving capital self-sufficiency. First of all, I'm
proud of the way we responded to the pandemic. We've shown strong operational,
commercial, and financial resilience during a period of huge disruption.
Second, we have improved strength and resilience of our capital base. We have made
strong progress in reducing the balance sheet exposure to property risk and intend to do
more of this in the near future.
Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

Third, our organic capital generation has been transformed and will continue to improve.
I'm delighted to report a combination of these two factors, means we have achieved
capital self-sufficiency more than a year earlier than originally planned. This will increase
the choices we have on how to deploy our surplus capital over time.
And finally, we've shown that one of those choices returning to growth has been secured
whilst delivering attractive returns to shareholders. As we show you today, we have the
foundations firmly in place to innovate, grow profits, and deliver attractive returns to
shareholders.
So turning to our results now on slide 5, capital continues to be the number one priority of
the whole leadership team. The headline capital coverage ratio has improved by 15
percentage points year-on-year, driven by management actions and the green bond
issue.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our balance sheet has proved to be resilient and the movements in the credit markets
and reduction in risk-free rates over the period have had little impact. Before
management actions, we achieved underlying organic capital generation of GBP18 million.
A GBP33 million improvement on the prior year and a barometer for how the business
has performed as the transformation has gathered pace.
New business strain at 2.2% premiums was an excellent result. With the addition of
management actions, we achieved GBP221 million of organic capital generation. All these
management actions free of capital as an attractive implied rate of return and importantly
further reduces the risk profile of our balance sheet. Andy will cover the results in more
detail later. But a 12% increase in new business premiums to GBP2.1 billion, a 10% increase
in tangible book value to 199p and earnings per share of 7% to 18.8p shows that whilst we
prioritize actions to improve our capital position in parallel the business continues to
deliver value to shareholders.
So, on slide 6, I am proud of what we have achieved in our journey the capital selfsufficiency. We feel we now have the foundations in place to take advantage of the
opportunities available in our markets and to progressively increase shareholder value.
Starting at the first column on the left, we have added 20 percentage points of capital to
the Solvency II coverage ratio in two years. At the same time as digesting the LTM
regulatory changes. You will know that a larger surplus provides further comfort to our
various stakeholders, lowers our cost of capital, and also gives us options to grow. We
utilized balance sheet capacity to optimize the capital structure while minimizing recourse
to shareholders.
Since 2018 organic capital generation has improved by around GBP400 million, quite a
remarkable turnaround. Management actions and basis changes have added over
GBP250 million excess own funds over the past two years, a very meaningful addition to
our capital buffer. Moving to the middle column, we have transformed how we run the
business turning GBP111 million of underlying capital consumption in 2018 into GBP18 million

Page 2 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

of capital generation in 2020. This is the core metric we use to consider the group to be
capital self-sufficient.
We focussed on reducing new business strain to deliver a very significant turnaround in
capital generation. In just two years, we have reduced new business strain by over twothirds. This pricing discipline gives us a strong starting point to selectively increase new
business growth. And moving to the third column. In a period when the focus has been on
capital, it is pleasing that we have continued to grow IFRS operating profits and book
value substantially.
Looking forward, we are confident about the prospects for further value creation. So,
overall, we have achieved a lot in the past two years. However, there's a
Lot more we want to do. We are determined to execute our plans, deliver our promises,
and build further value for shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to slide 7. As a reminder, whilst the underlying economic benefits of matching
our retirement income portfolio with LTMs are clear, changes in the regulatory treatment
of LTMs over the last few years mean that the sensitivity of our capital position, property
movements is higher than we would like. We want to reduce this balance sheet sensitivity,
and have announced a number of transactions in this regard.
Over the course of 2020, we completed our second and third no negative equity
guarantee or no NNEG risk transfers. 20% of the book now benefits from this type of
downside protection and we have appetite for more. Perhaps up to 40% to 50% over
time.
And in December, we sold the portfolio of LTM approximately 8% of the book. Further
sales in the future are likely subject to acceptable pricing. Together, these transactions
have reduced unhedged LTMs as a proportion of our total assets to 29% from 35% at the
end of 2019. Excellent progress and as you can see they are reducing our sensitivity to any
potential fall in the UK house prices.
I think we have all been pleasantly surprised how well UK house prices have performed
over the past 12 months and it's worth pointing out that the ONS measures used in our
balance sheet have an in-inbuilt lag. So we are expecting some further positive
developments in the early months of 2021 at a minimum.
Beyond that, there is clearly an open question about the direction of travel for the rest of
the year as stamp duty holiday gradually comes to a close and furlough scheme is
withdrawn. But again I'd like to emphasize that regardless of the short-term
developments, there is more derisking we'd like to carry out on our existing portfolio to
bring that balance sheet sensitivity down considerably.
With regards to future new LTMs, it remains an important part of our proposition to
customers and can be a very valuable part of their retirement planning. So we will
Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

continue to be active in the market, but will moderate the proportion of risk that we retain
on our own balance sheet.
Turning to slide 8. Defined benefit derisking now accounts for 70% of our new business
premiums. The DB derisking market is a great market to be in, the most exciting market in
the UK insurance markets today. 2020 was the second-best year on record with over
GBP30 billion transactions completed which is still a tiny fraction of the GBP2.4 trillion of
UK's DB liabilities. LCP, a leading benefits consultancy estimated DB market will be
between GBP30 billion and GBP50 billion per annum for the next five years.
Now just to date, we have focused our DB business primarily on transactions below
GBP250 million. Last year we completed 23 transactions and for content there are around
130 transaction of this size per annum. We targeted this segment as it accounts for
roughly 80% to 90% of total transactions in the market, allowing us to be selective and
also providing a regular flow of new business premium. The pie chart on the right-hand
side shows the total amount of DB transactions over the last six years. We've only been
active in one-quarter of total market, securing a 21% market share. As our balance sheet
grows and as we deploy our capital-light DB partnering proposition, we expect to deepen
our participation in the GBP250 million to GBP1 billion segments, which is almost one-third
of the pie.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have good visibility and have been monitoring pricing in this segment for some time.
We are well-positioned to take a larger slice of a growing pie.
Now slide 9. The retail retirement income market continues to be an attractive market for
Just. The overall market benefits from two big structural growth drivers and aging
population and the growth of the fine contribution or DC pensions helped by autoenrollment and the long-established trend of DB scheme closure.
We are a leading player in the guaranteed income for life markets. Our Corporate
Solutions and advisory business HUB financial solutions is the largest UK broker GIfL
securing one in every five sales across the open markets. Since Pension Freedom were
introduced six years ago, huge volumes of retirement savings have migrated to
drawdown platforms instead of purchasing deferrals.
The amount is now approaching GBP100 billion. Our secure lifetime income products has
been developed to help customers safely de-risk their investments on these platforms
over time. We're at an early stage in its adoption but it is a good example of an innovative
customer solution which present another potential avenue for growth over the medium
term.
So we remain attractive to the retail retirement markets. We are selective in the risks, we
choose to write and can pivot between writing DB and retail GIfL to meet our new
business volume and return objectives.
And finally from me, for now slide 10. We have transformed our business to become more
capital efficient. On the bottom left, you will see a repeat of the new business strain chart.
Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

The fundamental changes we have made to the new business model over the last two
years are having a real effect. So when we write new business, we generate higher
returns.
Increasing use of reinsurance has helped but maintaining strong pricing discipline and
targeting business with a lower capital strain have been crictical. Writing low strain new
business at attractive returns is fully embedded in the reward structures of our
management team, and it helps to deliver this major improvement. The graph on the top
left is a good reminder that whilst we were successful in growing our retirement's income
sales by 12% in 2020 we have much headroom for growth as sales has only just returned
to the levels achieved in 2018. There are multiple opportunities available as demonstrated
in the last two slides.
Furthermore, in 2021, we expect the retail market to bounce back from COVID-19 related
disruption. Naturally, with a stronger capital position, we can write more new business. The
chart on the top right helps to demonstrate that those opportunities come with very
attractive returns. Now that we've transformed the business model.
In 2020 GBP48 million of capital invested in new business is expected to generate around
GBP300 million of future cash generation for a net increase of around GBP250 million.
The lower strain increases returns and has shortened the payback period to just three
years. And with that, I'll hand over to Andy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Thank you, David. And may I also extend a warm welcome to you all today. We very much
appreciate your time and continued interest and I'm looking forward to the opportunity to
meet some of you in person, again as we gradually emerge from lockdown.
Turning then to the numbers and focusing first on progression of the capital position
outlined on the waterfall on slide 12. You can see the substantial progress we have made
over the last 12 months. Opening surplus own funds GBP748 million representing a capital
coverage ratio of 141%.
This position improved over the period by GBP328 million resulting in a year-end capital
coverage ratio of 156%. Key factors enabling this improvement were significant
contribution from management actions, which together with model and basis changes
added 11 percentage points to the ratio. A further six percentage points came from capital
raising being proceeds from GBP250 million green bond in October, net of the Tier-3
tender and earlier in the year the partnership life Tier-2 redemption.
In addition, I'm very pleased to note the growing contribution from our underlying capital
generation over the period of GBP18 million. We expect this to continue to become more
meaningful over time and given the extraordinary turbulence, we've seen in the markets
over the last year it's also satisfying to note a very limited impact from economic
movements.

Page 5 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

This reflects the effectiveness of our hedging program and active risk management of the
investment portfolio. Before we get into further detail on organic capital generation, it is
helpful to consider the contribution from management actions and how we see this
developing on slide 13. This slide summarizes the significant management actions and
capital raising we have delivered over the past two years. These actions deliver the pace
alongside the day-to-day running of the business, have significantly strengthened our
capital position, and also helped to improve our underlying organic capital generation.
On the right hand side of the slide, we've outlined potential future actions, including
continued property derisking through further NNEG hedging and LTM sales plus other
ongoing initiatives such as longevity reinsurance and cost reduction as well as the planned
move of the partnership life business on to the internal model. Note that although we still
expect continued capital benefits from future actions these will likely be lower on an
annual basis for the benefit we saw in 2020 with reducing property exposure a high
priority moving forwards.
Moving to slide 14, which shows the key component that make up organic capital
generation. As a reminder, this is a measure of the capital generation achieved by the
business before the impacts of regulatory change, market movements, and any capital
raising.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have chosen to present slightly differently in order to better highlight the key
dynamics of the underlying organic capital generation from the business. As you can see
from the table growing cash delivery from our growing in-force book provides funding for
our new business strain, financing, and other group costs.
Significant reductions in new business strain and other group costs over the period have
outweighed the rising group financing costs, which together with the growth in the inforce cash has driven a turnaround of the underlying capital generation from consumption
of GBP15 million in 2019 to positive cash flow generation of GBP18 million in 2020. On the
right-hand side of the slide, we've broken out the GBP203 million contribution from
management actions and modeling and basis changes.
This includes a combined GBP104 million coming from the two NNEG hedges, DB partner
deal announced last March, and the GIfL longevity reinsurance announced in August. The
main other positive was GBP54 million from updating to the CMI 19 annuitant mortality
model[ph]. As you can see from the previous slide, in-force cash generation supports our
new business and financing costs.
On slide 15, we have shown how the cash from the current in-force book is expected to
emerge over time. This is a measure of the value and cash generation potential that is
already embedded in our existing book of business. Annualized cash flow analysis has
been provided previously in the back of the RNS release but here we summarized it into
five-year blocks. Note, that we have made a slight simplification to last year's presentation
to remove return expected to be earned on surpluses after they've emerged, which is a
cleaner representation that depresses the outer years a little compared to last year.

Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

The analysis shows that to add to our existing GBP1.1 billion of surplus capital the current
in-force book will generate GBP3.6 billion of cash surplus over the next 30 years. It also
shows the effect of the TMTP amortization over the next 11 year without which the cash
generation would of course be significantly greater.
Even so, over the next five years, we have three quarters of a billion of cash, expected to
emerge net of TMTP unwind from our in-force book which is available to invest in new
business and to service our capital providers. We also expect to add to our in-force book
each year through new business which David noted earlier. In 2020 we added GBP0.3
billion of new future cash generation at a cost of GBP50 million in strain.
Now let's move to the next slide to cover our view on the near-term dynamics around the
underlying organic capital generation. Over the last two years, we've made excellent
progress to improve our underlying organic capital generation moving from significant
capital consumption in 2018 to a material positive of GBP18 million in 2020. And as we
look forward, we expect our underlying capital generation to continue to improve. Indeed,
we expect this to double by 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

This improvement is driven by in-force cash growing at around mid-single digit and by
continued progress on costs, which will eliminate the cost overrun in 2021. We expect to
limit new business strain to around 3% before income from DB partnering deals with the
DB partnering income enabling us to grow new business without growing new business
strain.
Financing costs will be GBP6 million high in 2021. The growth in underlying organic capital
to provide a meaningful annual contribution, helps to provide the business with choices in
the future over whether to invest emerging surplus in creating additional capital
headroom, new business growth, or returns to shareholders.
Moving on to slide 17 to touch briefly on our continued positive progress on costs. This
slide shows the progress since 2018 to realign the cost base with GBP6 million year-onyear absolute cost savings achieved in 2020 translating to 14% cost saving over the past
two years. These savings are being achieved through a combination of actions including
strength and procurement and discretionary cost controls, process improvements to
enhance our efficiency, selective hiring to improve capability, and rationalization of our
property footprint.
The combination of strong cost control and new business growth has ensured that the
Solvency II new business expense overrun has fallen materially in 2020 and our
commitment to eliminate this by the end of 2021 remains.
Turning to the next slide in the key elements Solvency II non-operating capital movements.
House price inflation across our portfolio in 2020 was marginally ahead of our long-term
house price inflation assumption, which I will return to later. Credit rating downgrades over
the period, had a negative impact of GBP42 million, but this was more than offset by
GBP88 million benefit from portfolio management to improve credit quality and more

Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

closely align duration across our matching portfolio which is coming in more detail on a
later slide.

FINAL

Regulatory costs in the period include the final GBP24 million of accelerated TMTP
amortization and also negative from the strengthening of the valuation of our LTM notes
in light of the fall in risk free rates ahead of half-year. This was to ensure sufficient
headroom was maintained over the PRA effective value test.
Long term interest rates have risen substantially after the year-end, which has boosted
our headroom over the current minimum EVT deferment rate of zero to 120 basis points.
This is comfortably above the PRA minimum deferment rate target for the year-end 2021
of 50 basis points, although there is a possibility that with rising rates the PRA might
increase that target minimum deferment rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

Other potential regulatory changes on the horizon include those flowing from the postBrexit review of Solvency II such as improvements to the risk margin and also the cost of
moving our discount rate from m LIBOR to SONIA. We do not currently expect a
substantial net cost from these future regulatory changes. I would expect any cost to be
offset by capital benefits for future management actions.
Moving on to slide 19 shows up Solvency II sensitivities. These are generally in line with
those published at half year. Our property sensitivity has improved to 14 percentage
points for a 10 percentage point drop in house prices. The benefit from the sale of LTM
and the third NNEG hedge both completed in December, have been offset a little simply
by the mechanics on the sensitivity of having a higher solvency coverage ratio at year-end
2020. Going forward, we continue to actively progress options to reduce the sensitivity of
our balance sheet to potential future property price falls. Our sensitivity to a credit quality
step downgrade of 20% of the credit portfolio remains at 13%. As at half year, I would
comment that this sensitivity as well as being quite extreme also understates the real
level of risk as it makes no allowance for the positioning of the individual names within the
portfolio or any potential portfolio management during a stress scenario.
We've just had a great example of this in 2020 where despite the extensive rating action
our Solvency II downgrade exposure has been limited and the net solvency impact from
our credit portfolio was actually being a GBP46 million positive. As we noted at half year
we have an active hedging program in place to managing interest rate risk, which leads to
a minimal sensitivity shown here and has protected the solvency balance sheet
throughout 2020.
On to slide 20 and switching to look at the IFRS results. Given the difficult social and
economic backdrop over the last 12 months, our IFRS results are a great testament to the
robustness of the business and the flexibility and resilience of the people that work at
Just. Underlying operating profit for the year increased by 12% to GBP297 million and
adjusted operating profit was up 9% to GBP239 million.
Within this new business, profit increased GBP199 million with retirement income sales
growing by 12% reflecting our growing maturity and success in the DB derisking market.
Page 8 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

Margins reduced very slightly to 9.3% with continuing pricing discipline, risk selection, and
lower costs offsetting a lower LTM backing ratio and additional reinsurance.
Going forward, we anticipate a broadly similar new business margin. The strong in force
performance was helped by increased surplus assets and widened credit spreads.
Growth in 2021 will be a little more subdued. Operating experience and assumption
changes were a positive GBP46 million broadly in line with the previous year. Reduction of
CMI 19 has had a positive impact of GBP62 million with other calibration modeling and
assumption changes negative GBP25 million
Increased in year mortality affected our annuity and LTM books with a small net benefit
offsetting costs from the GIfl longevity ratio and DB partner deals. Movements in other
group companies and development expenditure offset each other with reinsurance and
financing costs increasing as expected. Overall, a very positive result in what was a
challenging year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning next to the below-the-line items, contributing to the statutory IFRS result. The
main item here is the investment economic profit with an analysis on the right hand side.
There was a large gain from the positive impact of lower risk free rates where our
hedging of the Solvency II exposure leads to IFRS gains when rates fall but losses when
rates rise.
Credit spreads were a net negative and annual property growth in 2020 as noted earlier
was broadly in line with our long-term assumption; however, in light of potential short and
longer term economic uncertainties impacting the outlook for the UK property market in
particular, as the economy recovers from COVID-19 and Brexit. The board has taken the
decision to revise our long-term property growth assumption reducing this by 50 basis
points from 3.8% to 3.3%. This assumption change has resulted in GBP166 million IFRS
loss.
The next line shows the IFRS impact of the LTM sale in December. With over GBP540
million of LTMs were sold at a gain the IFRS asset valuation an IFRS loss arises because
the replacement bonds deliver a lower investment deal. The impact has been GBP136
million pre-tax loss or GBP110 billion reduction in net equity.
This reduction is expected to decrease somewhat over time as the funds are recycled
into alternative high yielding asset classes to achieve our optimal asset mix. Finally,
tangible net asset value driven by the strong operating result improved to 199p per share,
up from 181 pence as of 31 December 2019.
Moving on now to focus briefly on our investment portfolio. Slide 22 shows our credit
market exposures across the bond portfolio with liquid funds making up 54% of our
Financial Investments. The pie chart shows the split of our total bond of BBB portfolio
between more defensive sectors shaded in coral and the sectors potentially more
exposed to the pandemic in grey. 78% of our total portfolio and 76% of BBB bonds are
concentrated in defensive sectors.

Page 9 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

We hold a GBP650 million IFRS credit default reserves, which is equivalent to an annual 61
basis points yield reduction and suffered no credit defaults during the period. The table
on the top right hand side, details the strong performance of our credit portfolio during
2020. Proactive management help to limit the impact of rating downgrade over the
period and also to generate Solvency II surplus to improve credit quality and duration
managing leading to a net GBP46 million of Solvency II surplus during 2020. In the table on
the bottom right you can see that following significant credit rating and portfolio
management over 2020 our overall BBB rating has remained broadly unchanged. We will
continue to actively manage the portfolio in 2021.
Next turning to our Lifetime Mortgage of LTM portfolio on slide 23. Given the long-term
predictable nature of our annuity cash flows 46% of our asset portfolio is invested in
illiquid. With the most important components of our illiquid investment historically being
LTM. We have shown here LTMs as a proportion of the total portfolio on the chart on the
left hand side and this chart highlights the impact of three NNEG hedges completed to
date and the portfolio sale in December with unhedged LTMs dropping over the course
of 2020 to 29% of total investments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going forward, we expect to continue to gradually reduce our overall proportion of LTM
and also to further increase the mortgages covered by NNEG hedges. Hedging LTMs
frees up capital, and also reduces the property sensitivity. We've also focused on new
LTM sales on less capital intensive loans. LTMs are an asset we have deep experience and
understanding of which also fulfilled a societal need, playing an important role in providing
those in later life the option to help their loved ones, improves their retirement outcome
and to stay for as long as they wish in that community.
They continue to offer attractive spreads over alternative assets albeit with much of this
realized overtime under the new Solvency II regulation and they also provide a natural
longevity hedge as we have seen through 2020. Going forward, we expect LTMs to
continue to play an important but reducing role in backing new annuities with action
continuing to reduce the UK residential property risk across our in-force portfolio.
With that, I'll hand back to David for his concluding remarks.

David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Thanks Andy. Let's turn to slide 25. I'd like to start my conclusion by spending a moment
to recap on why we do what we do here at Just. Our purpose statement is a good
reminder of why Just exists. We help people achieve better later life. We believe
decisions we make and the actions we take should contribute to our partners. Whether
our colleagues directly support our customers or providing support to someone else with
our purposes beacon that guides our teams behaviors and drives high levels of
engagement throughout the organization.
We're helping retail savers, homeowners, pension trustees, and clients of our corporate
customers would advice and solutions that help them to achieve peace of mind in later
lines and at times like this that really bring home the value of locking[ph] into certainty.

Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

COVID-19 has resulted in a higher number of customers becoming vulnerable. Our
colleagues are trained to identify and support vulnerable customers and they do a
fantastic job of that. There have been recognized in the awards we have won this year for
outstanding service. I would like to thank them for the way they have responded over the
year to put our customers first.
And this purpose helps us in the way that we approach doing business as we set out on
slide 26. ESG factors and sustainability are core part of how we want our business just
operationally and how we invest our assets and 2020 was significant year on these fronts,
becoming the first UK insurer to issue a green bond and send an important message both
externally and internally and give further impetus to our sustainable investing journey and
we became much more sustainable in the way we work reducing our carbon emission by
75% from what was already the lowest per employee level in the sector.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this is not simply a pandemic one off. It is representative of our low emissions going
forward. When it comes to our colleagues, we worked hard to focus on improving
engagement during the pandemic and some aspects of remote working have actually
brought us closer together. We have been accredited as a two star organization in the
Annual Best Companies survey. This rating is classified as an outstanding level of
engagement and it's something I and the leadership team are very proud of achieving
given difficult external environment.
We have increased Gender Diversity at senior levels and we are on track to achieve the
targets we have set ourselves in line with our pledge signatory to women and finance
charter that 33% of our senior leaders will be female by 2023. You may have seen, we
appointed Kalpana Shah as our new Non-Executive Director on March 1. Kalpana has
considerable commercial and insurance expertise, which will benefit our group and I'm
looking forward to working with them.
Turning to slide 27 another important part of fulfilling our purpose is to ensure that we
have the right products and services for those in later life in a changing retirement
landscape. That's why we continue to invest in developing (inaudible) so that we can
positively disrupt the market and develop attractive options to grow our business.
We've launched a highly innovative, automated financial advice service called destination
retirement. We are in advanced discussions with a number of employee benefit
consultants to get this in the workplace solutions they offer across the UK. (inaudible) a
business of Marsh & McLennan, the world's leading professional services company has
selected destination retirement to be added to their workplace proposition.
This is an exciting partnership which means we can help 1000 more customers every year,
achieve a better leisure life. Our secure lifetime income product is a highly innovative
solution for Wealth Advisors, it delivers guaranteed income to their retail clients who sits
on modern investment platforms.
As previously announced in 2020 we completed our first DB partner deal a capital-light
partnering model for DB de-risk in transactions, which exceed GBP250 million in size. And
Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

in July, we launched the UK first Lifetime Mortgage which provides incentives to
customers whose property has an A or B rated energy performance statistics.

FINAL

We are investing to ensure we can deliver our strategic priorities, grow our business and
fulfill our purpose. On slide 28 you will know that our strategy over the past two years
have been very clear. We've been transforming how we work to deliver a sustainable
resilient business and are now approaching an inflection point for the group.
Generating capital remains our number one priority as healthy capital generation provides
a wider range of options to build shareholder value. Our leadership positions in attractive
segments of our chosen markets provide us with opportunities to grow with low capital
strain through the cycle.

Bloomberg Transcript

We must acknowledge that the outlook for the external macro environment is clearly
uncertain. The gradual withdrawal of the government stimulus will impact the UK economy
and its effect on the UK residential property market remains unknown; however, with a
higher capital base and more resilient balance sheet, we are better able to navigate the
uncertainty and write business at attractive margins.
So just to conclude why I started our presentation today. First, we have shown strong
operational, commercial, and financial resilience during a period of huge disruption.
Second, we have a stronger and more resilient capital base. Third, our organic capital
generation is being transformed and will continue to improve increasing the range of
choice we have and have to deploy that capital. And finally, we show that one of those
choices returning to growth has been achieved whilst delivering attractive returns to
shareholders. So having delivered a major transformation over the past two years we now
have the foundation in place to use our market-leading capabilities to create further
shareholder value. So we'll now invite questions (Operator Instructions) So I'll just give you
a moment to work technology and then I'll hand over to Steve to start Q&A

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thanks, David. We have a number of questions already in the queue. So Sarah could we
please unmute Nick Johnson's microphone. Nick please go ahead.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 21194455 <GO>}

So good morning. Can you hear me.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Yes, Nick, thank you.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 21194455 <GO>}

Page 12 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

Great. Good morning. So two questions, firstly the reduction to 20% Lifetime Mortgage
Banking ratio over time. What will dictate the pace that happens would it be dependent
on finding suitable replacement investments and related to that perhaps you could just
comment on the market for liquid investments in terms of availability, what you're seeing
there.
And then second question is the sensitivity of new business margin to LTM banking ratio.
Do you expect to be able to maintain new business margins where they are in the longterm 20% LTM banking ratio. Thanks.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Thanks, Nick. Those two questions are probably going to be even in the first two brands
of how we're going to manage the LTM banking ratio coming down and how the outlook
for replacement investment look and second hold sensitivity of our new business margin
to LTM banking ratio

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Thank you, Nick. So I think in terms of the reduction to 20% over the key point I would
make is that we have actually achieved a lot of that already. So if you look at our new
business banking ratio for LTM through 2020 that was around 23% and if you look couple
of years back, that would have been more like 28% or 29%. So that has been quite
significant production already. We're looking to continue on that journey down to around
20%, but it's not a massive step from where we have already achieved effectively through
2020 as we have achieved that and also to answer your second question a bit. We've
obviously achieved that whilst maintaining that new business margin, so yes, clearly there
is healthy margin associated with LTMs but we have managed through the pricing
discipline that we have our ability to operate in the markets that we do through the cost
reductions that we're achieving across the business, we have managed to maintain in
2020 our new business margin.
You asked about the liquid investments and it's a good question, because our liquid
outside of LTMs what we are seeing a growing proportion of our investment portfolio.
We've got just over 2 billion of sort of other liquids current across the portfolio, but it's
worth noting that around GBP0.5 billion of those we actually added through 2020. So we
do have a reasonable portfolio and we are adding to that as we move forward. The types
of assets that we tend to be focused on it's a mix really so we have within there we have
commercial mortgages, we have infrastructure and within that renewables and focus
there was both solar and offshore wind. So we are investing into those industries.
And then also private placements as well. So it's a mixture of things and we are accessing
that market through a selection of external asset managers

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 21194455 <GO>}

Thank you. Do you have any supplementaries before I hand the mic over.

Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

No, that's great, thank you very much both. Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Thanks very much, Nick and so could we please unmute Gordon Aitken Mike from RBC.
Please go head Gordon.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning David's. Good morning, Andy. Three questions please. First
on mortality, just looking at earnings mortality was a benefit in 2026, GBP1 million positive
but in 2017 you mentioned it was a net GBP30 million negative and that was when you
move to the CMI 15 tables. So what's changed in the three years from then to now.
Second question on reserves in your release you talked about increasing reserves by
GBP36 million for calibration and other modeling refinements just give us a bit more detail
here, so we can take a view of this and is it needed or are you being prudent, because
you have reserve releases elsewhere. And finally on the solvency ratio, can you just give
us a current estimate of your solvency ratio, you mentioned that you expect that to be
positives from property in the early months of 2021. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Thanks Gordon and I'll let Andy answer the first two questions on mortality and the
reserve adjustments for modeling refined calibration and on solvency ratio Gordon when I
publishing kind of a regular monthly update but as I kind of alluded to my comments. And
there is a natural time lag between what you might see reports in the headlines and
house prices, I want flows through into our solvency balance sheet because we use ONS
so and we are expecting it due to that source and over the early months of 2021 and I
guess on balance emerging news is probably skewed to the positive there anyway
forward-looking indicators and of course that will be supplemented by still relatively
modest in pound terms, but of course symbolically very important that we've got
underlying organic capital generation, which is also further nudging up the ratio over time.
The one thing I would like to emphasize though as kind of a slightly higher level is and
hopefully came through the comments is that, once we've achieved our goal of capital
self-sufficiency we will continue to be managing the capital position and very carefully and
through both the organic underlying capital generation but also we will continue to seek
capital management actions that improve the capital ratio and/or reduce the balance
sheet sensitivity.
So, and hope that gives you to the flavor of the direction of travel. And Andy do you want
to pick those two, please.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

I can, and maybe can give you all the detail that you would probably like on those
questions Gordon, in terms of the mortality release we felt it will be helpful within our
overall assumption changes to split out the impact purely focused in mind which is what
Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

we have done. Obviously there is a lot of other things go on within assumption changes
across business such as ours.
So there is a lot of both small adjustments to assumptions, but also modeling changes
that will be flowing through and refinements the accrual[ph] models and flow through
year-on-year and they will, they do inevitably create a degree of noise and that can be
positive. It can be negative so that's really In terms of I guess the calibration element on
those. So I would anticipate that will be ongoing negatives equally and you should
anticipate the ongoing positives, but there will be a degree of up and down the ways on
that line. In terms of the actual mortality versus 2017, yes, we are change is a combination
of the impact (inaudible) on our annuity, but also our LTM book.
So we bring both of those into the net GBP60 million benefit that you see flowing into the
IFRS results. So within that there is a large of positive for the annuity book and that really
reflects that we do have a GBP21 billion book of annuities and we are currently we are
57% hedged on longevity and that still leaves quite a chunk of that that is exposed
obviously and will benefit from any improvement in those CMI tables

Operator
Thanks very much Gordon and so could we open Ashik's mike from JPM, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, hi, good morning, David. Good morning, Andy. Just couple of questions I have is,
how should I read this GBP3.6 billion of future cash generation number, mean on one slide
which is slide number 15 I see that you're expecting GBP715 million of cash generation
over next five years. I mean, what is the comparable figure that you have reported this
year, because if I look at the in-force[ph] release, it was GBP164 million and like in next
slide you say in-force release is going to go up by mid single digit. So what is the GBP750
million a year any clarity on that would be very helpful.
And the second question is around doubling underlying capital generation. If I remember
correctly, it was mentioned in past that in-force release net of DB should be moving up at
15% a year. But it looks like now it's moving at 5% a year. So why is it less, because clearly
in-force release is moving faster than the underlying capital generation should move much
faster as well, so that would be my second question. Yeah. Thank you.
And I'm sorry, just one more last question is what do you still be, would you be willing to
give any sort of thoughts on like what should be a solvency ratio hurdle where you want to
sit at.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

So again, Andy I'll let you handle the first two on the in-force surplus and generation and
the difference between the run-off presentation in the forward guidance for the whole
book and I'll just briefly touch on the third one in terms of solvency ratio. I mean and we're
not putting out target range and I think what we can say is that the board is comfortable
Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

with where we're at 156% and we think it's in itself, a good starting point and particularly
as realistically we face into a period of some macro uncertainty.
And just echoing my comments from the last set of questions from Gordon we're not
going to be resting on our laurels, we will continue to take actions which provides an
underlying increase in that ratio even if it does move about positive or negative due to
markets and movement outside our control. So that's trended[ph] again since direction
travel and Andy on the first two.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It sounds good to me the first two (inaudible) to be adding up over the next five years.
Those in force cash numbers. So that is 164 driven forward over the next five years. So
that's what we're anticipating from that number. But, with no new business. Yes, exactly.
So in that 0.75 there is -- we aren't layering on new business, because that's purely an inforce really so we would expect as we move forward that new business will start to add to
that.
In terms of your question more around the capital generation I'm going to guess
particularly why going forward we guide to a lower in force growth rate that we've seen
this year, there were, there were various structural reasons as we restructured our
balance sheet, particularly types of the changes in the LTM regulations and that has
created an increase in additional improvements within our balance sheet that then
releases so that we've got a sort of an improvement effect to be in the 2020 in force, but
that was a one-off. So what you will see going forward is more than our in force is
expected to grow every year as we add new business at a faster rate and the business is
going up and that's what really drives that mid-single digit expectation in terms of the
improvement in that in-force line.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, that's very clear. Thank you for this thank you.

Operator
Thank you Ashik. Could we please now open Oliver's mike from DB, please Sarah? Go
ahead.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Good morning David. Good morning Andy. Three questions from me. And the first is, can
you just comment on how much of the LTM proceeds you already reinvested and by
implication, how much is to go and sort of roughly what sort of reaching level you're
reinvesting that at I suppose the question behind it is it does it raise your sensitivity to
credit defaults or credit migration.
And secondly on the GBP250 million to GBP1 billion segment if you're looking to sort of
access a bit more what does that imply then to your third-party agreements, any thirdparty agreements that you might sign, because I thought that segment is intended for
Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

those and then the third question is and I sort of hesitate to ask this really, but even if you
double the underlying free capital generation by 2022 you are still only on a 3.5% free
cash flow yield and it doesn't really leave a lot of room for the dividend.

FINAL

And so, what does that implies of the dividend and how can you get that implicit GBP36
million of underlying free capital generation up to a sort of much bigger level.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. Oliver and I'll handle the second and third and Andy can take the first. So on
the DB market the GBP250 million to GBP1 billion segment it's an area where if you go
back to my presentation and it accounts for getting close to a third of the total volume of
transactions at per annum and we fairly participate at the moment. So the huge untapped
opportunity there and we do have good visibility on the pricing in that market we have
participated in a number of processes and indeed we had one in that segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we did a GBP140 million transaction in 2020. So and we think there is plenty of space
for us to put to both for us to selectively right[ph] the occasional transaction onto our own
balance sheet as well as getting access for our DB partnering proposition and just to give
you flavor that even if we right just one additional transaction in that segment per year
that makes a big difference to our topline proportionately, so it's not like we've got to do
a loss in that segment on our own balance sheet to move to dial.
So we think there's plenty of space for both, and we think and the pricing dynamics are
supportive on the kind of longer-term outlook for free cash flow and how that plays into
dividend and it's not something that we want to and particularly play too much emphasis
on it at this stage because and at this stage, we are focused on guessing that organic
capital generation number up higher to give ourselves option. So we don't have in our
mind at this stage a set view on what is a dividend policy at some point down the line
maybe and we are focusing on say[ph] improving organic capital generation.
So that it gives us those options down the line and the options to whether it's to further
build the ratio, whether it's to reinvest capital in new business at very attractive IRR that
are available at the moment or whether it is to reinstate a dividend policy. And I do get
your underlying point, which is really fundamentally, our business is not going to be a yield
story anytime soon and I hope that's on (inaudible) anybody who follows those.
We are going to be a growth and an increasing value at attractive IRR story. That is what
our fundamental proposition is over the medium term. Andy do you want to comment first
one.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

I guess any other point of that to David is you focus very much there quite rightly in some
way that underlying capital generation. We do expect that to be a continued contribution
year on year from management actions. But, yeah, that will obviously bounce around. In
terms of your question in terms of what we have reinvested so effectively, we have, we
have fully reinvested the LTM proceeds into corporate bonds so, into liquid corporate
Page 17 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

bonds. So that was done in December. What we're doing as we roll through this year is
selectively rotating (inaudible) bonds and into more liquid assets. So that will happen as
we go through this year. We're starting to make progress on that. I don't have a figure in
terms of how fall through we are on that, but you can view that of that GBP540 million
effect (inaudible) was closer to GBP600 million of proceeds that we received in.
We will be looking probably to reinvest about a third of that overtime out of the bonds
that we went into originally.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Thanks, Oliver. Sarah, could we turn Louise Miles of Morgan Stanley, please.

Q - Louise Miles

{BIO 20765435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good morning everyone. Hope you're all doing well. Just three questions from me,
please. You've mentioned and you've already spoken a little bit about doing that you're
increasing your allocation to other (inaudible) and I think you're using (inaudible) moment.
Do you have any plans to develop or acquire any capability to originate any of these
assets yourselves so that's my first question.
And then on your interest rate sensitivity on under Solvency basis on slide 19, are we
correct to assume that this is linear i.e. if interest rates increased by 50 bps will we see
one percentage point decrease in Solvency ratio or something else happening there..
And then finally on destination retirement that sounds like a pretty interesting proposition.
I'm just trying to get my head around the impact to earnings from these partnerships with
(inaudible) and potentially other pensions consultancies, is this really just another
distribution channel for selling lifetime mortgages and deferrals, or are you actually also
earning a fee from the consultancy using this platform. Thanks.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Great thanks Louise and again, I'll take the last one working (inaudible) today. I'll take the
last and Andy you can do the first two, and (inaudible) is a bit different. So in terms of
thinking about how the financials play out on that it will essentially be generating a fee
income for us and that is primarily what it is designed to do. It's meant to be low-cost
automated and simply automated financial advice, which helps to navigate middle Britain
through and what is a very complex retirement landscape.
So we plug that into workplace solutions, so as people around[ph] order enrollment or
have other DC parts can start to think about their future and be led to simplifying way and
it could increase and probably should increase the total size of the pie in terms of some
of our products. But that's not the primary driver because the advice which comes out of

Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

this destination retirement is not limited to our products or even our product suite. It is a
full range depending on the risk appetite of the customer of what they may want to invest
in their assets
Of course, the great thing about this is what you're building up is an ongoing relationship
with that customer, but the whole benefit of the building something which is automated.
So that could add up to meaningful contribution over the medium term, we are (inaudible)
medium term, I wouldn't factor anything into your models for '21 or '22 at this stage.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

And in terms of the first two questions so on the illiquid side yeah, we are quite
comfortable with our marketing of using external asset managers, because we believe
that gives us a good reach across the market. Good access to opportunities across the
market, and it also means we aren't -- we aren't sort of tied to any one portion of that
market. So we don't have immediate plans to develop our own sort of origination
capability particularly in the illiquid space.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have -- we have taken on some of the more liquid bond management in-house
ourselves but we prefer to keep the access to the illiquid market through few specialists.
In terms of the interest rate sensitivity I think we published a minus 50, I get your point
that it might be helpful to know what the plus 50 basis would be, I would view that as
broadly (inaudible) I think particularly in a range of plus or minus 50. I'm probably a bit
above that. We are producing here in terms of how we operate. Probably one point to
note it is invested in my speech here that so little bit of downward pressure on the
solvency ratio.
As we've gone through the first couple of months of this year that's more than
outweighed by the positive we've seen from house price growth through the ONS, and
also has led to growth in our buffer on the EVT test against the deferment, right. So, so
that's going up to 1.2, 1.3% for us, it is significant because it may even (inaudible) PRI
choose to increase that target minimum devote right from 0.5% to 1%.
We still -- we're still above that and comfortably above that today. So there is no future
cost involved in getting to that minimum.

Operator
Thank you Louise and Sarah If you please go to Larissa at Barclays, please. Larissa, please
go ahead.

Q - Larissa Van Deventer

{BIO 21570130 <GO>}

Good morning, guys. Thank you. Three quick ones. The first one on the LTM early
redemptions. Could you give us a sense of whether that is simply following lower rates or
whether on agency competitive pricing in the market. Second question is with the lower
new business strategy show a breakeven period of three to four years, can we
extrapolate that to be four to five issues if the new business strain goes up to about 3%
Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

and the last one is back on the liquid. You mentioned that you want to increase the liquid
exposure. At what point does that become a risk on liquidity or are you able to match the
duration so that liquidity should not be a problem. Thank you.

FINAL

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Great, thank you Larissa. I'll handle the east one, the middle one. Andy you can do the
early redemptions and the liquidity management but, I asked exactly actually same
question there is if I can answer that with confidence that yes if it moves to that four to
five years if you have a 3% strain. So Andy, over to you.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

All right. So in terms of LTM, we saw a small increase in redemptions, not a massive
increase through last year, a lot of that relates to increase autopsy in the population. I
think that there has been probably. If you look back over the last two or three years, a bit
more re-broken going on across the LTM sort of market we're seeing less of that now
that we were a couple of years back.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the, your question on illiquids in fact, we were expecting to replace the LTMs
we wouldn't be brought so if we were writing new business of banking 28% for the LTMs
and bringing us now down to 20 it's that portion that we are expecting now to be filling
with other illiquid, so we're not moving generally to be more illiquid. We're just changing
the nature of our illiquid backing so that's very much where we've targeted. And that is
being made to any liquidity strain in terms of future cash payments.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Just one other point, just to add on the LTM early redemption. So Andy says we are
seeing a drop off in re-broking there in recent months. But just to remind you that and we
do have early redemption charges which provide significant protection against early
redemption, not complete mitigation but it provides a significant protection against those.

Operator
Thank you, Larissa. Thank you, David, maybe we have one more question. Sarah could we
turn to Barrie Cornes of Panmure, please. Please go ahead.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Can you hear me.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Yes, thanks Barrie.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

I've got 3 questions. I just wanted to talk you on the backing of the LTM's towards 20%.
Can you give me a timeframe as to when you'd like to get down towards 20%. The
Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

FINAL

second question I had was, in terms of the bond sales think made GBP639 million Just
wondered if there were any particular area and the reason behind that. And lastly, I just
wondered if you could comment on the market's appetite on no NNEG hedging and LTM
just wanted, what sort of market was out there. Has it changed as a result of the macro
environment. Thank you.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Great. I'll pick up the first and the third one and let you deal with the bond sales one. And
so, first of all, you had a target on getting new business LTM banking ratio down to 20%
and we want to get there by next year up Barrie so for financial year 2022 and just expand
on that point, ever so slightly the way we're thinking about property exposure at the
moment is on the existing LTM and we have at the moment. We're using a combination of
no NNEG hedges and portfolio sales to bring that down to the level we'd like it to be and
which is getting the kind of the balance sheet sensitivity approaching at 10% sensitivity for
10% house price falls somewhere in that region.
And so, we're using those to deal with the bank book and then what we're doing on new
businesses is we just want to make sure we keep a lid on that revised level sensitivity by
bringing the new business banking ratio down to around 20%.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as I said in my remarks, we still think it's economically and attractive asset and those
are very valuable customer proposition. But doing that on new business should keep the
whole thing and broadly speaking in equilibrium and Just on the topic of no NNEG hedging
and we are still seeing good counterparty appetite for that, it's not a deep and liquid
market. These are -- these are first of a kind type transactions.
But there has been no reduction at all in that appetite in light of what's going on the
broader housing market.

A - Andy Parsons

{BIO 20726474 <GO>}

Okay. In terms of -- in terms of the bond sales this is probably a few points to make in
terms of those sales. Obviously, we have -- we have a portfolio of around (inaudible). So
we tend to look through name by name, rather than particularly trying to tell you are
getting out of a particular segment.
Within that, we probably have reduced our exposure through to some of the consumer
cyclical areas of banks as we've gone through the year. But very much we have looked on
a name by name basis a very focused within that of not just on whether what we think
bond is at risk of downgrade, but also will that downgrade take you down the category
from a Solvency II so it moved to the next big letter in writing to Solvency II because that
impact of the (inaudible) benefit you can type, but I will stress also the GBP600 odd
million there is a combination thereof some of that was defensive so trying to trade out of
things which we thought were at risk of downgrading some I would see as more
optimizing and that's looking to proactively move out of certain names and into other
assets, which maybe give us a better matching profile.

Page 21 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-16

So we moved more to ground rents as we went through last year, which give us a very
good duration within DMI and that move to benefit. So it really is a mixture of both
defensive and offensive or optimizing type activity.

FINAL

Operator
Great. Thanks Barrie for the question and thank you Andy for answering. So that concludes
today's presentation. Thank you all for joining us today and for your continued interest in
Just. Obviously you've got any follow-up questions I'm sure you won't hesitate to call the
IR team (inaudible) talking to you again soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 1989974 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

