Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

Scor Global P&C - January 2021 Renewals Results
Company Participants
FINAL

Jean-Paul Conoscente , Chief Executive Officer - SCOR Global P&C
Laurent Rousseau, Deputy Chief Executive Officer - SCOR Global P&C
Olivier Armengaud, Senior Manager and Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Darius Satkauskas , Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Paris Hadjiantonis , Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the SCOR Global P&C January
2021 Renewals Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. There will be an
opportunity to ask questions after the presentation. (Operator Instructions).
At this time, I would like to hand the call over to Mr. Olivier Armengaud. Please go ahead,
sir.

Olivier Armengaud

{BIO 20892984 <GO>}

Good afternoon and welcome to SCOR Global P&C 2021 January renewals. My name is
Olivier Armengaud, Senior Manager in the IR team. And I'm joined on the call today by
Jean-Paul Conoscente, CEO of SCOR Global P&C; and Laurent Rousseau, Deputy CEO of
SCOR Global P&C. Before we start, I would like to remind you that SCOR full year 2020
results will be presented on February 24th. When it comes to the Q&A session, we will
only be able to refer to the renewal information that are provided in the press release or
in the slides.
With that I hand over to Jean-Paul.

Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

Page 1 of 11



FINAL

Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

Thank you, Olivier and good afternoon everyone. I'd like to share with you the outcome of
our January 1, 2021 renewals, which represent a little less than two-thirds of our
reinsurance portfolio and roughly 45% of our total annual SCOR Global P&C premium
income. You'll find more information in the slides and press release distributed earlier
today. There are three messages I'd like to convey to you today on our excellent
performance of January 1. First, as we have forecasted our September 2020 Investor Day,
we saw substantial price increases across virtually all lines of business in all geographies. In
this significantly improving market we still have portfolio with the business was most
attractive. As a result we achieved portfolio profitability improvements in all lines of
business and geographies and strong growth in Europe, Fast Growth markets and Treaty
Global Lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

The U.S. portfolio growth was affected by a one-time management action on a large
account. Secondly, witnessing a general slide to quality, our strong client relationships
enabled us to seize newer profitable opportunities, increase our shares on attractive
business and extract preferential terms and conditions with a large number of long-term
clients. Third and last, our view of profitability integrates our latest research and analysis
on climate change, social inflation and other loss transactors. And therefore provides us
with a solid basis on which to project business performance going forward. The excellent
underwriting conditions achieve will fully translate into profitability improvement over time
in the quarters to come. The current market hardening was driven by the various
environment dynamics we highlighted previously. Lower investment returns, successive
cat years, and accelerating loss trends, all requiring better technical profitability of the
business.
We believe these factors will continue to drive hardening market conditions in the month
and year to come. In terms of premium income we achieved 15.9% growth on the back of
an average 7.8% price increase across our portfolio, and roughly EUR315 million of new
business. Leveraging our deep client relationships, we're able to grow our European
portfolio by 22% on the back of increased shares and attractive renewal business and new
business opportunities. In North America, a one-time management action on a large
account affected the overall growth which was also via strong and driven by a significant
price increases. Adjusting for this one-off account, our North American business would
have grown 10%. The new regional structure we adopted in October allowed us to
leverage our key client relationships in the rest of the world and helped us extract
preferential terms and conditions.
In Fast Growth markets, we're able to expand our Treaty Global Line portfolio or
benefiting from the organic growth of the traditional P&C lines, achieving an overall
growth of almost 26%. Not reflected in these price increases are also more favorable
terms and conditions for reinsurers. We led a market wide unwillingness to accept
contiguous disease exposures and we're able to introduce exclusion clauses on short tail
lines treaties and on selective long tail segments.
Overall, we are extremely satisfied with the outcome of the reinsurance renewals. We
continue to leverage our franchise globally to make the most of improving conditions for
reinsurers. The Specialty Insurance which renew throughout the year, the primary
insurance hardening that started two years ago continues to be global for larger
Page 2 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

FINAL

commercial risks. In 2020, we grew a specialty insurance premium by 16% on the back of
an average 23% price increase across all geographies, among the business. Average
increases in all regions exceed 20%. We are focused the specialty insurance growth on
short tail lines where we see the biggest improvement in profitability. On longer-tail lines
while rate increases remains substantial, we believe additional increases are required and
we have refocused the book on lines and geographies that in our view reached or exceed
rate adequacy.
Finally, we were able to complete the placement of our retrocession program by the end
of November, in line with our plan, environment that was difficult, but better than originally
anticipated. The supplier proportional an aggregate capacity continues to shrink while
excess of loss occurrence capacity remained steady both from traditional reinsurers and
ILS markets.
Thanks to our long-term approach with our largest retrocession partners, we're able to
complete our retrocession program within our budget expectation. In this context, SCOR
reiterates the guidance presented at the September Investor Day, including a combined
ratio trending downwards towards a 95% and below the financial year 2021, in a
continuously improving market environment. Profitable growth remains the objective of
Quantum Leap and after having solidify our portfolio base in 2020, we'll continue to
leverage improving market conditions with a view of outperforming original Quantum
Leap targets.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I will now take any questions you might have.

Olivier Armengaud

{BIO 20892984 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Jean-Paul. We now can start the Q&A. Can I remind you to please
limit yourself to two questions each.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Andrew
Ritchie with Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi there. I guess, maybe if you could just recap, Jean-Paul and Laurent, the translation of
headline rate into margin. You gave some indication on the Investor Day on -- and I think
you're implying that everything has turned out in line with -- but just remind us, because
you said in your opening remarks, the prices with full year and into margin, I guess you
don't -- certainly may not because you're not expecting margins to improve by 8 points.
Could you just give us a reminder on what you're seeing in the loss cost? And obviously
some trajectory to what degree, how long this business will take to run through? Is there
anything unusual about that?

Page 3 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

I'm getting to the second question, I was a bit surprised that the strength of growth in
motor, could you give us some sense of what the opportunity you've seen in particular in
that process? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. So the -- you're correct that the -- for the price increases to translate
into margin, you have to also take into account the increase of loss cost and other factors,
including the change of structure of the portfolio. Given the price increases we achieved
at 11, we expected the overall margin to be somewhere between 1.5 and 2.5 points of
improvement. This improvement will has a certain earn out, as the written premium takes
anywhere between 12 to 24 months to earn out. So we think this will earn out over the
next 12 to 18 months. On your second question on motor, the growth comes from two
places. One, that there was a Intertech [ph] opportunity, to support a company as a sole
reinsurer. On the transaction there was one large transaction, we were able to write a
very profitable terms. And the other was -- other opportunities in the Fast Growth
markets, again with the treaty conditions, meaning our profitability targets. So most of it is
just new business.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
And we will now take our next question from Vinit Malhotra with Mediobanca. Please go
ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon everybody. Thank you. So my first question is just looking at the kind
of outlook, where it seems you are a bit more bullish on pricing, sustaining than some of
the other peers. I'm just reading, you have a comment in the presentation that sales
program renewed independently of over '19 future claims settlement. So in a nutshell, I
mean, you thanked the thesis that as more COVID claims discussions happen in the rest
of the year, pressure on pricing or this hardening should continue. So if you just clarify this
whole development as you see it? And second, very big one is that, in the morning when I
was speaking to IR, I noticed the credit and surety, lots of changes also on the terms and
conditions with sliding scale commissions. Could you just discuss a bit about how you seen
the pricing and growth in data and surety, because the 21% you produced is far higher
than at least one of the peers in the same line. So any comments on credit and surety
would be helpful. Thank you.

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

Yes, Vinit. So on the first point, yes, we are bullish about the rate environment for
insurance and reinsurance. What happen around the COVID claims, of course, there was a
lot of discussions, especially around contingent disease exclusions. When it relates to how
the COVID claims affects the reinsurance programs, here we're talking mainly about
property BI, claims. And in many cases, most insurers have not finalized their view of what
Page 4 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

FINAL

their ultimate claims are. And have not and also in many cases engaged with reinsurers
about how they translate into reinsurance potential claims. These issues around the treaty
wording, how the claims can aggregate into a single event, what the (inaudible) are, and
those discussions are not taking place. So the rate increases that we're seeing are really
environment driven. And we think that once for the discussions on additional claims
coming from COVID take place that will lead to further rate strengthening in 2022.
On your second question regarding credit and surety, you're correct in that, we think this
is a good time to increase in this line of business. The rate increases we see year-overyear between 2020 and 2021, as we pointed out in our presentation is modest at 4.3% on
average. However, what it doesn't reflect is the fact that in 2020 there was significant rate
improvement, push through by the credit and surety insurers. And the average price is
between 15% and 20%. In addition, there has been a lot of re-underwriting of the
portfolio, shrinking limits and focusing on segments that are more stable and less
exposed to potential retrocession or COVID effects. Therefore, we believe the underlying
performance of credit and surety portfolio is quite good. And the rate achievement 2020
is very attractive. And these as we see are expected to continue in 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Laurent Rousseau

{BIO 19524847 <GO>}

And perhaps -- it's Laurent speaking here. I'll extend Jean-Paul's answer, Vinit. This
comment -- just made are actually true of most of our global lines. If you look on Page 14,
whether it is marine and offshore, engineering, I think there is a consistent view across
reinsurance and specialty insurance. Now the commercial line space is hardening faster
than the personal lines, and this is a theme that we had put across at the Investor Day and
that we very much are seeing very valid. And whether it is on the single risk specialty
insurance side or on the global lines that you show -- that we show on Page 14. Those
global lines are mostly proportional. And so we really picking up the underlying very strong
growth in those classes, (inaudible) as well and agriculture actually. So we really have a
healthy proportional underlying primary business in these large commercial lines business.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Right. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Operator
And we will now take our next question from Kamran Hossain with RBC. Please go ahead,
your line is open.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. Kudos to team. Two questions. First one, just thinking about rate adequacy, where do
you think this is best now in the treaty side or specialty? So that's first question. And the
second question is just around terms and conditions, I guess, outside of contagious
disease or -- cyber exclusions, are there any other kind of areas that you would highlight
that change this round of renewals? I mean, I wouldn't have still either of those of two
changes with specific key kind of thing that has occurred in the soft market. So, just
wondering if there are any other kind of headline teams [ph] on tenancies report? Thanks.

Page 5 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

FINAL

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

Thank you for the question. So on rate adequacy, right now we feel that the overall rate
adequacy is probably still better on large commercial risk specialty insurance. Reinsurance
is catching up, and that's why we think, it's not -- still not at the level that we expect to
ultimately achieve. And we think further hardening is -- will take place in the subsequent
renewals in 2021 and 2022. There were instances, for example, in U.S. casualty of some
insurers achieving higher commissions on their programs, especially for segments where
there was a significant price increases. And therefore, keeping reinsurance margins stable
year-on-year. And we know -- so we think there again specialty insurance probably offers
better rate adequacy than the reinsurance. But then we look at Europe, I think in Europe,
most of the programs are non-proportional, there we have very good rate adequacy. So it
varies by segment, by geography. But I'd say on average insurance is slightly more
attractive than reinsurance, but reinsurance is quickly catching up.

A - Laurent Rousseau

{BIO 19524847 <GO>}

I would say...

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

On your second question (Multiple Speakers)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Laurent Rousseau

{BIO 19524847 <GO>}

Jean-Paul an additional consideration to take into account, if you look at Page 16 is the tail
of the business. We're a lot shorter tail on specialty insurance than in reinsurance.
Reinsurance get some PATs [ph] for the motor book, of course, some casualty, whereas
specialty insurance is a lot shorter tail. And you're currently -- in the current environment,
generally speaking, the long tails -- the long tail lines do not attract the same rate
adequacy than the short tail lines.

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

No, no. Thanks a lot. On the second question on terms of conditions, yeah, you're right,
continuous disease exclusions or it was one of them, (inaudible) cyber was another area
we pushed very strongly. There is also a lot of clean-up on terms and conditions, another
exclusions on the event limits undeductibles, a lot of the write-backs in the exclusions. So
these are effects that are -- I'd say conditions that -- seek through in a softer part of the
cycle. And as we enter a hardening there was a focus not only on rate, but also on
cleaning up the terms and conditions overall. And in most cases, we don't reflect that in
our pricing, but it leads to more profitable business for reinsurers.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Thanks very much.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now take our next question from Darius Satkauskas with
KBW. Please go ahead, your line is open.
Page 6 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

Q - Darius Satkauskas

{BIO 19724328 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, thank you for taking my question. Can you give a bit more color on the North America, I
suppose, even without the impact of that large account, growth of 10% seems somewhat
limited when increased about 1% plus. So any color here would be appreciated.
And then you also make a point that long-tail specialty lines. With the pro [ph] rate is
needed, is this because you expect the claims strategy to kind of deteriorate on the back
of COVID? Or any color here as well would be helpful. Thank you.

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

Right. Thank you. I'll take the first question and give the second question to Laurent.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the first question, in North America treaty renewal, we grew a very strong growth in
Canada, where we felt the conditions were adequate. In the U.S., we had despite the big
rate increases we felt -- still took a very prudent approach on both casualty and
proportional property. On casualty, there is underlying factors that have been in play for a
while, such as social inflation, venture funding of litigation in the U.S., that are driving loss
cost upwards. Rate is keeping pace with these, then you have additional factors such as
COVID which -- a looming recession. There is one, that will be weighing down those lines
of business. So, that's why on the casualty, we remain still very prudent. In the U.S. and we
think further not only just rate increases on the primary side, but for the reinsurance
conditions have to improve for us to be more bullish on U.S. casualty right now.
In U.S. property, there was a difference between proportional and non-proportional. We
felt non-proportional pricing was quite good. We try to grow in that area, but it was a very
competitive market with the new capital entrants having a dampening in effect on price
increases and on shares. On the proportional, we feel that again the commission levels
that were used in those programs, really, we're not providing reinsurers enough margins
relative to the capital that's required. And therefore, we took a prudent approach as well,
proportional property. And that's why you see the overall growth of roughly excluding that
one time a large account of 10%. And the 10% growth is really focused on nonproportional.
Laurent, do you want to take the second question on the long-tail specialty lines?

A - Laurent Rousseau

{BIO 19524847 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks Darius for the question. So, no, there is no link, we actually do not see any
casualty COVID claims so far. So that comment as we have on Page 16 or we said a more
rates increases are needed for the long-term classes is a much broader statement, which
I would say predates COVID, if you wish, in the sense that, we have had quite a high
claims activity, whether it is social inflation or more generally speaking, the claims activity in
casualty has been fairly high. And when you compound this with the lost investment return
the rate adequacy and that is required is therefore quite a bit higher for the long-tail lines.
So, I would say this is just say continuation of long-term trends we've been seeing on
long-tail classes. Nothing, to do specific or linked to COVID.

Page 7 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

Q - Darius Satkauskas

{BIO 19724328 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Operator
And we will now take our next question from Thomas Fossard with HSBC. Please go
ahead, your line is open.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. A couple of questions. The first one would be ready to treaty
Europe issuing, a pretty significant growth. I would say are relatively unexpected for a
relatively mature market and stable position. So wanted to better understand specifically
why or how you managed to get 21% growth in France and maybe also 14% in Germany.
What you see is a case now? That would be the first question. And also maybe one for
Laurent. When do you think that actually we should see more positive volume growth in
the specialty insurance, seems to be that clearly rates are still running ahead of premium
growth. So when is that going to stabilize and see more volume on your side?
And the second question would be related to the retro, maybe you could shed a bit some
light on the change in structure, obviously there has been a lot of changes happening in
the market. The trade price mentioned earlier back in November, that you had to scale
down your -- again get covered, and that you speak your excess of loss covers into peak
and non-peak risk. So overall, I mean, what does this changes mean in terms of your
protection for -- I don't know severity or frequency risk, I mean, what should we expect of
this new structure to have in terms of impact on your earnings profile be volatility or
addendum swings? Thank you.

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

Thanks, Thomas. You managed to have three questions, you had two questions, but I'll
answer the first one part on Treaty Europe. Here that the growth we achieved, it was
really driven on the deep franchise we have in Europe, and the strong client relationships
that we've built over time. I think as many clients in Europe-based COVID claimed and
start engaging in discussions with reinsurers. On the reviews there was many clients that
didn't decided in terms of renewal to probably increase shares with the reinsurers that
we're going to be there for them on the long-term, and also had constructive discussions
with them on sort of the management of these claims. And this was not only on increased
shares on existing business, but also opportunities to write new business, and that's why
we took fully advantage of in France, in Germany. In the UK, the growth is coming more
from new business on motor, one large, as I said in (inaudible) company in the UK. And
one large whole account quota share is focused on short-tail large industrial risk business.
So, maybe, Laurent you can answer the second question on the specialty insurance.

A - Laurent Rousseau

{BIO 19524847 <GO>}

Sure. I mean, what we're seeing currently, to my eyes is a mechanical feature of most
hard markets. So that the rate increases come first. This is on the back of claims activity.
Page 8 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

FINAL

And the premium volume and the premium growth is lagging slightly behind. So clearly, I
would expect from 2021 maybe to see a narrower gap between premium volume and
rate changes. This is a function as well of the fact that we've been, as you know we've
been leading quite some restructuring in two buckets of our portfolio. One is at Lloyd's,
over 2.5 year period, we shrunk our Lloyd's premium volume by a third. Now this pruning is
done, as we said in September the other day. And actually, we're going to have a profit
for us indicates for 2020.
So, it's the turnaround is really working well, and so will expect to see more growth
coming from SCOR channel syndicates. And the second bucket where we had done some
pruning was and still is in our casualty classes in single risk. Both general liability,
professional lines and the condition that we're seeing on the casualty lines are improving
fast. So I would expect to see a bit more growth in 2021. So, the restructuring phases are
largely over now. So I wouldn't see any real drag there. And maybe the last point is on
credit and surety, in single risk insurance. We stopped underwriting between May and
September when we saw the crisis unfolding, we really could depend on. And so our
political risk and credit risk business and insurance has taken quite a hit on the premium
written in 2020. But here we have resumed selectively with a lower risk appetite. But
again, we would see some growth year-on-year. So 2021 should have again a pretty high
premium volume for single risk insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

On your second question, Thomas, related to retro. So I think as we explained previously,
we launched in 2020 a complete restructuring of our retro and also a tender for different
brokers to get different ideas of our restructuring. The market, the renewal at 11, 2020,
was already difficult with the first signs of capacity shrinkage on proportional, on
aggregate. And therefore, we anticipate the market that 11, 2021 continue on the same
trend. And I wanted to start doing the changes required to basically keep our risk appetite
the same, in terms of capital protection and volatility. But anticipating difference of
supplies, and so that's what we've done. As I mentioned earlier, there was less -- we
bought less proportional retrocession than previously, and we also bought less
aggregate. But we should restructure with excess of loss. And so -- and that was the
budget, we had -- that was part of our plan. As we build our operating plan for 2021 that's
fully accounted for. In reality, I think we saw a retrocession market, that was better than we
anticipated. And actually, overall budget we achieved were slightly below our initial plan.
So we're slightly better than we had anticipated.
In terms of the profile, I think what we have today is both through the retrocession
program, we bought and through the underwriting actions we took in 2021. And the price
increase in 2022, we believe we're probably less exposed to volatility than we were
previously, and is well protected for capital events as we were previously.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now take our next question from Paris Hadjiantonis with
Exane BNP Paribas. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Page 9 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

FINAL

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, and hello from my side as well. Two questions. The first one in -- about
proportional lines. So price increases there of 6.4%. And I was wondering if you could give
us a better idea of whether that is pure underlying price improvement or whether there is
any effect from ceding commissions as well? You've made a passing remark about certain
accounts in the U.S. -- how actually seen a ceding commissions going up rather than down.
So if you could give us a bit more detail about certain lines of business or other
geographies and what the movements on ceding commissions have been there?
And then the second question is on catastrophe pricing. So about a month ago, when we
were adding the insurance broker reports, we got the feeling that catastrophe pricing can
go up as much as expectations. I guess, what do you think on that, obviously, you have
reported today cut pricing up 10%. You've grown premiums by about 13%, and also what
do you think about catastrophe outlook in April and mid-tier rate renewals? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jean-Paul Conoscente

{BIO 20770277 <GO>}

Thank you, Paris. So on your first question, the price increases we show do not include
commissions or it's just price. Commissions varied really by country and by line of
business. And as I mentioned, there was a few cases in U.S. casualty where commissions
went up. But those were not programs that we supported. Overall, we achieved
commission improvement across our portfolio, a little less than 1.11 [ph], which is on the
portfolio that we grid. And on the cat pricing, I think, there was again varied price
increases by region. We saw Europe really between 5% and 10%. And I think the average
for Europe for our portfolio is a high single-digit. So it's closer to the 10% and to the 5%.
And through Americas and Australia, we were closer to 15% -- 20% increases. In U.S.,
there was in our number of regional accounts that were affected by tornadoes, (inaudible)
in the year. And some of those programs actually received much higher rate increases
than 20%, some of them were 40%. But on average, it was between 15% and 20%. So for
the rest of the year we expected the U.S. price increases to be of similar size. And I think
for the April renewals in Japan, you know (Technical Difficulty) significant. But as we have
said, that did not -- sufficient or full payback of the losses we've suffered in '18 and '19.
And so we expect probably further price increases at April 1, but likely not to the same
extent as we experienced last year, so maybe similar to what we expect in the U.S.
between 15% and 30%.

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's question-and-answer session. At this time, I
would like to hand the call back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.

A - Olivier Armengaud

{BIO 20892984 <GO>}

Page 10 of 11



Company N ame: SCOR SE
Company Ticker: SCR FP Equity
Date: 2021-02-09

Thank you very much. Just as a reminder, we are available to answer any other additional
questions. So if you'd like to get in touch, then please do so. Next call will be on February
24, our full year 2020 results. Thank you very much and enjoy the rest of your day.

Operator

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation, you may now disconnect.

Page 11 of 11

