Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Investor & analyst deep-dive webinar
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernhard Kaufmann, Chief Risk Oﬃcer & Member of the Management Board
Jelmer Lantinga, Head of IR
Maurice Koopman, CEO of the Non-life company
Tjeerd Bosklopper, CEO of Netherlands Non-life, Banking & Technology and Member
of Management Board

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Benoit Petrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Farquhar Murray, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Welcome to NN Group's DeepDive Webinar. I'm Jelmer Lantinga, the
Head of Investor Relations. About a year ago, we presented our targets and strategy at
our Capital Markets Day. Since then, we were able to talk to many of you. Today we have
two presentations on two topics that came up during many of those meetings.
We start with a deep dive on Non-life, which will be presented by Tjeerd Bosklopper and
Maurice Koopman. Tjeerd Is a management Board member and responsible for Non-life,
banking and technology. Maurice is the CEO of the Non-life company, and has 20 years
of Non-life experience and is able to tell you all about the day-to-day work in the Non-life
business lines.
After that, we continue with a presentation by our Chief Risk Oﬃcer, Bernhard Kaufmann.
He will present on interest rate risk management. Finally, we have a Q&A session, which
allows you to ask all your questions that you have from Tjeerd, Maurice and Bernhard.
Now let's get started, and let me hand over to Tjeerd to start his presentation on Non-life.

Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Page 1 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Well thank you, Jelmer. Good afternoon, everyone. Looking forward to presenting an
update on the Non-life business, together with Maurice, who is the CEO of the Non-life
company since about a year. Now last year, I introduced myself with a passion for cycling.
Now the main update there is that I've seen lots of wind and rain with the weather in the
past months in the Netherlands. However the good news for you today is that this is
fortunately not the case for the story that we have to share on Non-life today.
So what we will talk about today? Well ﬁrst, I will talk you through the overall strategy and
the progress we've made and later Maurice will do more of a deep dive on the product
lines. So let's start with an overview of the Dutch Non-life market. After the acquisition of
Delta Lloyd and VIVAT, NN is now the clear market leader in Non-life with about 3.5 billion
in gross written premium. Now the Non-life market itself is sizable with about 18 billion in
gross written premium and moderately growing at a low to mid-single digits. The market
itself is still hard, and we expect this to continue in the coming one to two years. A lot of
players have become more rational in pricing in recent years. Now we expect the
combined ratio of the Non-life market to remain attractive at about 97%. After the
consolidation, NN is now in a good position to beneﬁt from scale and to optimize
margins.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have a strong track record in improving performance in recent years. We started in
2017 above 100%, but recently, in the past two years, we have posted a healthy combined
ratio of about 95%. There, we really beneﬁted from a well-diversiﬁed product portfolio,
where the negative impact on D&A was oﬀset by more positive results in P&C. I'm also
proud to say that it is not only due to our position, but also we really beneﬁted from
completing the Delta Lloyd integration, rationalizing a lot of products and systems,
restoring proﬁtability of loss-making products to strict pricing and underwriting measures.
On the left, you can see some indicators: a healthy combined ratio, operating proﬁt and
gross written premium growth but also OCG and remittances. They were slightly
depressed in 2020. And for OCG, this was mainly due to a one-oﬀ eﬀect due to the lapse
of the Movir reinsurance which accounted for about 65 million. So consequently, also our
remittances in 2020 were lower. But the overall picture is a strong track record in
improving both scale and combined ratio over the past two years.
Now not only our product portfolio is well diversiﬁed. We are also the only player in the
Dutch market that has a strong position in all relevant distribution channels. So in
bancassurance, we do exclusive business with four out of the ﬁve largest banks in the
Netherlands. We are number one in the broker and mandated agent space, where we
also own our own brokers (inaudible). Of course we have our own direct label, ORA,
where we are number three in the market. But it's also important to realize that this world
is not static. So trends we observe are a large consolidation in the broker and mandated
agent space, the rise of specialized service oﬀerings and embedded insurance. That's
why in our strategy, we are also investing in these spaces to sustain our strong position in
the future.
Examples such as HES, ABW, but also the platform in the campus where we participate.
These are new engagement platforms that allow us to introduce new propositions and
distribution options. Now Camper and Indy campers are both examples of embedded
Page 2 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

insurance in midsized e-commerce platforms, focusing on e-bikes and campers. And
Maurice will later on explain more about HES and ABW in his piece. But combined with
the National-Nederlanden brand, which has the highest brand awareness in the Dutch
market and our large customer base, this gives us really a unique distribution position in
the Netherlands.
Now our strategy is to beneﬁt from our leading position along ﬁve priorities. The ﬁrst one,
sustain our strong distribution position, brand and have an above-average satisfaction for
both brokers and customers; invest in digital and data to improve eﬃciency and pricing
and underwriting is the second priority; the third, agility of our workforce to be able to
attract and develop our talents; the fourth, of course to ﬁnancially deliver on our targets
and to sustain our ﬁnancial strength; and the ﬁfth priority, I believe, is the fundament of
our Non-life company and its contribution to society. This is, of course our core business
in handling customer claims in adverse situations, but also examples such as stimulating
safe driving and burnout prevention. And again later on, Maurice will give a couple of
examples to bring this more to life to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me share with you a short update on where we are in the execution compared to
our CMD commitments of last year. I will do this by looking at the OCG development from
2020 to 2023 and what drives this improvement. The ﬁrst underwriting there, we have
established a central team for pricing and underwriting, pooled and standardized data
from all our labels in the Netherlands and attracted data scientists that took numerous
actions based on these insights.
On the SAA, the strategic asset allocation, we've shifted the portfolio more towards credit
and mortgages with already an uplift in OCG of about 15 million that we can report today.
For VIVAT, the integration we are ahead of plan. So the legal merger was completed for
the 1st of January. We already completed more than 80% of the migrations if you look at
the premiums. We had in 2020, EUR 45 million of contribution to operating results and
both the expense reductions and the investments are ahead of plan.
On Delta Lloyd, of course the integration was completed, and now the focus is more on
further expense reduction in the remaining business lines, which are to come from
digitizing processes. We've started these programs in all major product lines, and all of
them are well on track.
Key issues that we are addressing, the individual disability portfolio of Movir, the eﬀect of
the low interest rate on group D&A, investing in future capabilities to stay ahead in the
market. Now my take on this is that we are well aware of these issues, we've acted on
them and with a price increase of 10% in individual disability per the 1st of January,
repricing of group D&A on the lower interest rate, but also investing in new capabilities
for our strategy. So overall, I'm really proud on the progress that we have made in the past
year.
Now let me hand over to Maurice to do a bit more of a deep dive into the business lines.
But before I do that, let me quickly introduce my rise. Now Maurice has about 20 years
plus experience in ﬁnancial services with a vast majority, all kinds of diﬀerent roles in non

Page 3 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

life. And he brings, especially very relevant experience from our direct label ORA on
digital pricing, but also all the nice frictionless processes that we have there, and I'm very
happy that he is now bringing that to the rest of the Non-life business. Maurice, it's over to
you.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Maurice Koopman
Thank you, Tjeerd. Good afternoon to you all. In the next 15 minutes, I will explain what we
are doing in the Non-life company and how we are transforming into a future-proof
business. Tjeerd just explained how NAND strategic commitments are reﬂecting in our
strategy. Now I will explain how this translates into the strategy of NN Non-life. Our
strategy is centered around simplicity and agility. This will ensure that our business is
ready to anticipate and respond to any change coming our way. As a former football
coach, I taught my players that if they want to succeed on the pitch, they had to play on
the toes. Resting on your heels means that you're always too late. If you're on your toes,
you will be ready to respond to every change in the game.
On the following slides, I will explain what this means for our product lines as well for our
organization. One of the enablers of this strategy is the integration of free fold Non-life. As
a former head of the integration, I'm very proud to achieve what we do so far. We
welcomed 400 talented VIVAT employees to NN. We've successfully migrated around
90% of the VIVAT premium to NN systems. And more than half of expected cost synergies
have been achieved by the First Quarter of 2021. We expect to migrate VIVAT Non-life to
partial internal model in the ﬁrst half of 2022. Results of the VIVAT Non-life in 2020 were
better-than-expected and the contribution of VIVAT to operating results was, as Tjeerd
already mentioned EUR 45 million. We are conﬁdent that we are able to achieve the
envisioned cost savings and free cash ﬂow.
Let's now take a close look at the product portfolio of our Non-life company, starting with
the P&C portfolio. Within P&C, our largest portfolio is, of course the ﬁre portfolio. NN is
market leader in the ﬁre market, with more than 30% market share. This is a very healthy,
stable portfolio with annual premiums of more than EUR 1 billion. And bearing some
volatility in the SME portfolio, the results are generally solid.
As Tjeerd mentioned, we have a unique, diversiﬁed distribution mix. With the larger
mandated brokers, we are working on co-creation of products, for example, by oﬀering
aﬃnity business. This allows some moderated but proﬁtable growth. In the retail business,
ﬁre insurance is typically sold when a customer moves to a new house and leaves a
mortgage. Fire insurance is, therefore, a typical bancassurance product. In which we have
a very strong position with partnerships with ING, ABN AMRO, S&S and, of course NN
Bank. The other attractive part of the ﬁre insurance is the price tag is relatively modest,
resulting in relatively sticky business. In recent years, we have complemented our
traditional insurance oﬀering with services to help customers manage their risk. We're
focusing on ﬁxing the damage, instead of paying the damage, solutions instead of
money. This leads to a higher customer satisfaction, lower claims expenses and higher
customer retention.

Page 4 of 27



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Let me show you how our technical expertise works in practice. In 2017, the SME ﬁre
portfolio was structurally loss-making. We saw too many claims coming in. We set up a
task force to scrutinize the portfolio, and starting with the large risk, we work down the list
and reevaluate each object For speciﬁc types of objects, our in-house technical experts
revisit the object on site. And by visiting objects, you can truly inspect the risk of our
demand additional prevention measure. It took -- in total, we took more than 8,000
measures renting from price increases to cancellations of policies, and thereby decreasing
the claims ratio.
At the same time, we launched two new ﬁre products for the SME market, a low-cost
package solution and a bespoke solution for more complex risk. The combination of
reversing the negative trend and the new proposition proved to be very successful. The
portfolio is proﬁtable again but also growing in size. We are now ready for additional
selective growth of the business.
Let me now touch on the motor portfolio. NN is the number two in the motor market with
EUR 900 million of annual premium and more than 20% market share. We have made
good progress improving the proﬁtability of this portfolio, thanks to applying strict
underwriting criteria and very strong risk selection. We are now working to further
strengthen our data and intelligence capabilities, and this will further improve our
underwriting. With our experience and knowledge of this market, we see pockets of
growth in certain segments. For example, in the SME business, the smaller car ﬂeet
segment is quite an attractive segment. These are car ﬂeets up to 250 vehicles, and we're
building up our presence in this market with ABW, a specialized broker in this segment, as
well as, a provider of training to car ﬂeet owners. This combination helps us to play a
relevant role in a large part of the value chain by oﬀering driver assistance tools and
security training next to our traditional insurance. And besides reducing claims, there is
also a limit to the number of accidents, and therefore, makes the Netherlands a little bit
safer.
In the retail business, we're focusing on attracting the right risk in this mature and highly
price-sensitive market. To show you in practice how we price our products, on this slide,
you can see enhanced various labels in the Dutch market. All labels are very well
positioned and attract diﬀerent kind of customer proﬁles, depending on the average
value of the car and the age of the customer.
Our largest portfolio, ORA, has, on average, one of the higher price positions in the
market, which is unattractive for new business. However for our preferred and targeted
risk segment, ORA has the lowest price. While maintaining our proﬁtability, the portfolio
grows and lowers our expense ratio due to low marginal costs.
Let's now continue with the second segment in the Non-life company, which is Disability &
Accident business. Within D&A, we basically have two diﬀerent segments, group income
and individual disability. Group income is a product aimed at employers. The product
cover the mandatory payment of salaries for employees that have fallen ill or are
permanently disabled.

Page 5 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

In summary, we oﬀer two types of cover: sickness beneﬁt cover for the ﬁrst two years that
the person is ill and beneﬁt for work over for the following 10 years. These products are
typically distributed by brokers. Individual disability is a product aimed at self-employed
professionals, such as lawyers, accountants. But most notably, we have a very strong
position among medical professionals. Our specialized label Movir is market leader in this
segment. This product covers the risk that the professional is unable to work for a longer
period of time, and the policy pays out until the insured person recovers or retires.
D&A is a very attractive segment of the market as margins are generally good, the value
chain is relatively long, and a long duration of liabilities gives an opportunity to earn on
investment margins. And barriers for entry are relatively high. It requires very speciﬁc
expertise and experience, as well as suﬃcient skill.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now look at the proﬁtability of these products. Our D&A portfolio earns around EUR 1
billion premium per year. Traditional margins in D&A have very attractive. However 2020
was a diﬀerent year. In the group income portfolio, we faced pressure on results mainly
due to COVID-19 and the reduction of the IFRS discount rate. We expect that claims
experience will normalize when COVID-19 is behind us, and the reduction of the discount
rate is likely to be priced in these products over the coming years.
As most of you know, for a while, the individual disability portfolio has been facing
elevated inﬂows. This is the result of two factors: the ﬁrst is the trend visible in the society
as a whole, leading to an increased focus on mental illness such as burnouts. However
this trend is intensiﬁed by the composition of our portfolio. Due to strategic choices in the
past, the portfolio is now -- is not as diversiﬁed as we want it to be. We are over exposed
to medical professions, and this led to higher claims in 2019 as well in 2020. Part of the
claim was covered by our research agreement, which lapsed at the end of 2020. Going
forward, all new claims will be fully reﬂected in the Non-life results.
And to restore proﬁtability, we have taken strict measures. Eﬀective from January, we
increased our premiums up to 10%. I and in addition, we have made actual investment to
prevent disability. We have launched a new product with updated terms and conditions,
and a legacy portfolio has been placed in runoﬀ. It is encouraging to see that we already
see early signs of improvement in the First Quarter of 2021. This conﬁrms our belief that
we can restore the proﬁtability of both portfolios sustainably.
On the next slide, I will show you how we complement our insurance oﬀering in D&A with
recovery and well-being services. Similar to P&C in our D&A portfolio will also oﬀer a
combination of insurance with complementary services, and this works very well. By
oﬀering prevention and reintegration services we avoid as well reduced claims. But
maybe even more important, we increased engagement with our customers. In addition,
certain servers are oﬀered for a fee, which creates an attractive source of additional
capital-light fee income. And for our group income business, we have entered in a
strategic partnership with HES.
This is a leading and growing one-stop shop in the ﬁeld of vitality services. HCS oﬀers
reintegration service to NN, but also to competitors. And for individual disability, the

Page 6 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

wellbeing services are instrumental in their oﬀering. These services help professionals to
excel in their career, but also in their personal life. Our focus is, for example, on
professional development coaching, but also on me and my family or advice on
overcoming sleeping problems. Our experience shows that professionals taking out
prevention services have a much smaller chance of suﬀering from example, burnout. With
that, let me now pass you back to Tjeerd for the wrap-up.

Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Well thank you, Maurice. Let me now quickly wrap up for the key takeaways. So the Dutch
market is sizable growing moderately and has healthy combined ratios. In this market, we
have a unique and leading position in Non-life in the Netherlands in both size and
distribution proﬁle. Where we believe that there is further potential to beneﬁt from our
scale in both eﬃciency and underwriting. We've made good progress, and we have a
good track record in delivering on our strategy, and our targets of a combined ratio of
94% to 96% and OCG of EUR 225 million and above and an admin expense ratio of below
10%.
And I hope our presentation today was helpful in your understanding of our Non-life
business, and I also hope that you share my enthusiasm and conﬁdence in the delivery of
our strategy and targets. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Hello, everyone. One year ago, soon after I joined NN Group, we presented our new
strategy at the Capital Markets Day and I gave you an overview of our risk and solvency
position and how we optimize risk and return proﬁle. Today I want to come back to one of
the more complex risk categories, which is very much in the spotlight these days, which is
interest rate risk, and I want to give you more insight into how we manage interest rate
risk at NN Group.
Now what are the key points I want you to take-home with you from this presentation?
First, our plan to shift to higher-yielding assets is progressing well, and there is room for
further risk return optimization in our investment portfolio. Second interest rate risk is no
problem for us as our strict cash ﬂow matching leads to low interest rate sensitivities. If
interest rates go up or down. Third, our remittance capacity is not impacted by changes in
interest rate. And fourth, the cash ﬂow matching approach for our pension business in the
Netherlands supports the growth in operating capital generation over the next years.
The presentation is now structured in the following way. I will summarize our approach to
manage market and credit risk. Then I will point out how we hedge and manage interest
rate risk on an economic basis. And ﬁnally explain what is the impact from interest rates
on our Solvency II balance sheet and especially on operating capital generation, or OCG.
As you all know, we have a strong solvency position. Our solvency ratio end of year 2020
is at 210%. Now if you compare our risk proﬁle to peers, you see that we are relatively
underweight market and credit risk. The main reason for this is our conservative approach

Page 7 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

to investment risk and especially to credit risk. Another reason is that due to our business
model, we have a large exposure towards longevity risk that is dominating our insurance
risk proﬁle. We started to mitigate this risk and have the possibility to take additional
steps. As we have seen last year, this has a very, very positive impact on our risk-return
proﬁle. An essential part of our NN Group strategy is to maintain a strong balance sheet.
To ensure this, we will continue with our conservative approach to investment risk. But
there is room for further risk return optimization.
Last year, we announced that we expect at least EUR 200 million increase in OCG from
the shift to higher-yielding assets. In 2023, and we are very well progressing on this route.
How do we do this? We shift out of government bonds to more illiquid assets and
corporate bonds, as indicated on the chart of the left-hand side of Slide 5. On this path,
we will gradually continue also in the next years.

Bloomberg Transcript

The main diﬀerence comparing our portfolio with the portfolio of other insurance
companies is the allocation to Dutch mortgages. The risk return proﬁle of this asset class
is very attractive, and there is room to further increase the allocation over the next years.
This will continue having a positive impact on our risk-return proﬁle.
That already leads to the ﬁrst takeaway but our plan to shift to higher-yielding assets is
progressing well, and there's room for further risk return optimization also in our
investment portfolio. So now let's deep dive into interest rate risk management. What is
our steering philosophy related to interest rate risk? The pension business in the
Netherlands delivers a very stable and predictable liability cash ﬂow. We apply strict cash
ﬂow matching and match our best estimate liabilities with ﬁxed income assets up to year
30, so there's hardly any interest rate risk resulting from net cash ﬂow over the next 30
years.
After year 30, we keep a small open position due to illiquidity, availability of instruments,
with some tactical leeway for active management and risk return consideration. In
principle, we see interest rate to be a non rewarding risk, and therefore, we do not make
interest rate bets. Please be aware that our focus already for some years is on writing life
protection business or deﬁned contribution business without guarantees. Therefore, our
very long liabilities from our pension business in the Netherlands will run oﬀ over time.
The cash ﬂow matching approach is in place since many years. In addition, manage the
remaining interest rate risk very closely. Though there are limits, tolerances for all maturity
buckets in place, and we also are well within our limits. Which leaves room to react to
certain market developments. The example on the right-hand side, Slide 8, illustrates that
we were managing the remaining position on an opportunistic basis. For example, we
replaced derivative positions with long-term government bonds after yields became more
attractive in the beginning of this year. The 1 basis point sensitivity for the resulting
economic position as estimate liabilities versus matching ﬁnancial instruments was below
EUR 10 million at the end of April 2021. So this also illustrates the limited impact of interest
rate changes, given our technical provisions for this business are above EUR 100 billion.

Page 8 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

To summarize our approach and relating to the takeaway two and three, economically, we
are very well matched, especially if we put this into perspective with our own funds, the
resulting economic sensitivity is low, a 50 basis point interest rate shift at year-end 2020
led to 0.6 billion positive impact on our economic position. Also the result in Solvency II
ratio sensitivity is low. So lvency ratio goes up by 3percentage points if rates rise by 50
basis points. Why is this? Even so the overall impact on the Solvency II own funds is
negative. If rates go up, solvency capital requirements are decreasing as well. That means
that in Solvency II, there are stock and ﬂow eﬀects coming through that impact, and they
impact their own funds, but they also impact the capital requirements and OCG.
But very important, the remittance capacity of the group is not materially impacted by
interest rate movements as we take both stock and ﬂow into account into our dividend
decision-making. This leads to sustainable and predictable cash return to shareholders.
So this is great. To understand now the impact on operating capital generation and our
solvency ratio, especially if interest rate changes, I have to make some more general
remarks ﬁrst.

Bloomberg Transcript

An essential part of the business model of life insurance is to earn from investments
spread over time and this is a spread above risk-free interest rates. But the valuation of the
liabilities in Solvency II and the Solvency II balance sheet is based on risk-free interest rate
curves. So therefore, Solvency II trials in the solvency assessment to capture this essential
part of the business model by introducing long-term guarantee measures and uses an
ultimate forward rate (inaudible) for the long-term interest rate curve to allow for partly
recognition of spreads earned in a real-world environment and liquidity of markets for
longer maturities.
As a consequence, there is a beneﬁt coming from these measures and the valuation of
liabilities compared to blindly using the swap curve, leading to a positive contributions in
Solvency II own funds. This beneﬁt to the own funds for NN Group mainly relates to the
long-term liabilities and the introduction of the ultimate forward rate, and therefore, we
refer to this as the UFR beneﬁt. You can see this on the left chart, the orange part of the
runoﬀ pattern on Slide 12. These are the liabilities that are mainly impacted. As our longterm liabilities run oﬀ over time because we write this kind of business no longer, the UFR
beneﬁt for our own funds reduces. That means every year, there is a reduction of this
beneﬁt related to our long-term liabilities that are running oﬀ, and we have a negative
contribution coming from this referred to (inaudible).
To illustrate this, we are showing the development of the main drivers over time on Slide
13. In because of the runoﬀ of the liabilities of this speciﬁc book of business, we have
every year a lower UFR drag over time. In addition, a reduction in risk margin, a reduction
in the solvency capital requirements and the investment return we earn. All of these items
are developing in line with portfolio developments. The relevant point now is that the UFR
drag runs oﬀ faster compared to investment return and risk margin and SCR reduction.
This means, in total, we have a positive resulting net contribution to operating capital
generation over the next 10 to 15 years due to the runoﬀ.
We expect, based on year-end 2020 numbers to have an average -- to have, on average,
an increase of OCG of around 40 million per year until 2025, which is a bit higher in
Page 9 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

earlier years and ﬂattens out over time. That means just because of the runoﬀ of our long
duration liabilities from the pension book in the Netherlands over time, we reduce UFR
beneﬁt in our own funds and have a positive contribution to OCG every year coming from
the net eﬀect of this runoﬀ. Therefore, our asset liability matching policy pays oﬀ as we
have a tailwind for OCG over the next years.
And as a ﬁnal point, which is the master class section of this presentation. Now what
happens if interest rate moves? On Slide 14, the impact relating to a 50 basis point
upward shift is shown. This mainly reﬂects what the impact from rising rates will be until
today. And as I mentioned before, if interest rates go up, the impact on Solvency II own
funds is negative. But solvency capital requirements goes down as well because we have
less interest rate risk. That means solvency ratio is impacted in a modest way. It's even
positively impacted rates go -- if rates go up for us, for NN Group. In addition, there's an
immediate impact on OCG, which is positive. This is a shift from stock and ﬂow in practice
that I referred to before.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Solvency II mechanics language, the ultimate forward rate beneﬁt in our own funds,
but I showed on Page 11, become smaller in a higher interest rate environment as a
diﬀerence in discounting between Solvency II interest rate curve and the actual swap
curve is smaller. Therefore, the UFR drag is lower for the coming years, and therefore,
positive OCG contribution goes up. Therefore, we expect for 2021 with an interest rate
increase of 50 basis points and an immediate positive impact on OCG of EUR 245 million.
And for the coming years until 2025, on average, EUR 20 million annual contribution to
OCG as a result of the runoﬀ.
What does it mean now for the OCG contribution to our EUR 1.5 billion target for 2023
coming from this? Well OCG support from in force pension business in the Netherlands is
one of the locked in drivers to reach the EUR 1.5 billion target. In addition, main
contributors are regulatory annual UFR step-downs until 2022. The inclusion of NN Bank
based on solvency contribution instead of remittances, which were 0 last year following
COVID-19 restrictions, but also the full eﬀect of the shift of -- to higher-yielding assets from
2020 investments will come through. All of this is contributing positively to OCG growth
over the next years, which sums up to more than half of the OCG growth we are targeting
in the next years. In total, the locked in drivers will deliver more than half of the additional
500 million step-up of OCG from 2020 to the planned 1.5 billion in 2023.
Other additional operating levels reﬂect business improvements. That will come from the
operating segments like what Tjeerd and Maurice pointed out for Non-life business in the
Netherlands, but also from the other segments.
Operating capital generation depends also on markets and market movements. And as
markets move on a daily basis, year-to-date, we saw an increase of interest rates
supporting OCG in line with the sensitivities I just showed but please note that we have
also seen a material tightening of spreads, especially Dutch mortgages, which negatively
impacts the investment return.

Page 10 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

So to summarize, our shift to higher-yielding assets is progressing, and there's room for
further risk return optimization. Our strict cash ﬂow match up to year 30 leads to low
interest rate sensitivities. If interest rates go up or down, the remittance capacity is not
really impacted by interest rate changes and our asset liability management of the
pension book in the Netherlands, support OCG growth, especially in an environment with
rising interest rates. I hope I have convinced you that interest rates are really no problem
for us. With this, I hand it back to Jelmer.

Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

So thank you, Bernhard, and thank you, Tjeerd and Maurice, for your presentations on
Non-life and interest rate risk. We will now start with the Q&A session.

Questions And Answers
A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Can I kindly ask you to focus your questions on the topics of the presentations and to limit
yourself to two questions so that everybody gets a chance to participate? And if you wish
to ask a question, you can now virtually raise your hand. So the ﬁrst question is already
there. It's from Cor Kluis from ABN AMRO. Cor, please go ahead. Great to see you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Just a few questions. First of all, on the VIVAT acquisition, the VIVAT Non-life acquisition. I
think based on the local reporting, VIVAT Non-life in 2019 at a gross written premium of
around EUR 800 million, that's 790 or something. I think there are some cleaning in the
portfolio like you presented today which you have been doing. What is the current
premium of the acquired business. So basically, the question is how much now -- which
amount of premium did you remove or cleaned or became more selective in that respect?
So that's my ﬁrst question.
My second question is on the departure internal model, so that you want to have a partial
internal model in the second half or the ﬁrst half of 2022. Could you give some for the
Non-life business, could you give some idea behind the technicalities and then maybe
already some indication of contribution to the solvency ratio of the Non-life business.
Because it should probably be quite material or material else you would not spend your
time and eﬀort on that. And my last question is on the risk side. It's a technical
presentation, but very well explained, thank you for that. The question is on the stock and
ﬂow part. You basically said that if interest rates go up 50 basis points, that's minus EUR
0.9 billion for the own funds. If you only take stock a ﬂow element is minus 1.5, could you
also have this split out for the OCG part? Because the OCG part was plus 245. What is
only the stock and ﬂow element if you would isolate that? Probably larger, but could you
help us with that ﬁgure as well? That's it from my side.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Cor. So let us start with the question on VIVAT. I think Maurice, you are
probably best placed to answer that question. You were the former lead of that
Page 11 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

integration. Then maybe, TJeerd, you can follow-up on the Non-life question on the PIM.
Bernhard, you could end with the question on OCG.

FINAL

A - Maurice Koopman
Thank you, Cor, for your question. Yes. Of course it's a big topic. Of course if you move
portfolios to other systems. Then it's all about retention. We are very pleased with the
retention rates so far. We see that we have 700 or 800 already in the NN systems at this
moment. The remaining is the coming months, of course. We, of course see some small
outﬂow because, yes, it's changing, which are oﬀset by some growth in other lines. But on
balance, broadly, it's neutral. We are pleased with the progress, especially because we
have a lot of experience with the delta migration, and we're now following with the VIVAT
migration, we are very pleased with the retention so far.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you. Tjeerd, on PIM?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Yes. So thanks, Cory. So on the PIM, partial internal model. So you're indeed correct that
VIVAT was on standard formula and still is, and we're in the process of bringing VIVAT to
our partial internal model. This is a process with the regulator where you go through
various steps of assurance, interactions. Then once you submit it, the regulator has six
months to come with a formal approval. So is typically, yes, a process that takes a bit
longer because it's so technical. We indeed expect a positive impact from this major
model change, bringing VIVAT to the partial internal model. The magnitude of that impact
is too early to disclose as it is obviously dependent on the ﬁnal conclusion that we reach
in this process with the regulator and the other stakeholders.

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. Cor. On your last question on OCG, stock and ﬂow related to a 50 basis point
upward shift. In 2021, if interest rates stay as they are, so really this 50 basis points upward
shift, the expectation is that we see in the OCG of 2021, a positive contribution of EUR 245
million. Then in the following years from the regular runoﬀ and also because the UFR
beneﬁt is reduced, we will also then see a 20 million on average, positive impact until
2025. So that is the, let's say sensitivity always compared to end of 2020, if interest rates
go up 50 basis points.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

The question was more focused on this stock and ﬂow part because I think on Slide nine
of C9 you show the stock and ﬂow parts separately. Because the total on the own
reference is minus 0.9, the stock and ﬂow part is minus 1.5. So that's good. We never see
the ﬁgures. But also, do you have that for the 2 45 if you would only take the stock and
ﬂow part without the other elements?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Page 12 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Well yes, yes. So the 245 is really coming from this fundamental shift in the year '20-plus.
So it's really a one-time impact that would then go through OCG or we would show in the
P&L. But I think that is a, let's say the stock part you're looking for because this is really the
equivalent to the minus 0.9 billion million own funds movement. Then the ﬂow part is
really about this EUR 20 million annual on average until 2025, I was referring to that
would come then in the later years.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

The next question is from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca. Robin, good to see
you. Please go ahead. Let us then maybe try again in a minute with Robin and move
forward to the next question from Michael (inaudible). Michael, good to see you and
good to hear you. Yes. Go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yes. Just two quick questions on the Non-life side. I guess the ﬁrst one would be a followup on the PIM. Maybe too early to disclose the total impact. I guess assuming that it's a
material impact, can we discuss a little bit on how we should think that perhaps inﬂuences
remittances or beneﬁt to Holdco cash? Or is it likely whatever the impact would be to stay
within in the nonlife Dutch legal entity? That's question number one. And question
number two, wanted to go back to the slides around the motor portfolio. I think you
showed a 96.5% combined ratio for 2020. Obviously there's a COVID frequency beneﬁt in
that number. Therefore, that to me, without knowing the actual impact, suggests that the
combined ratio probably underlying was still at best 100 or possibly above that. So that to
me doesn't sound like a part of the book that is performing that great yet. So how can we
think about the performance of that improvement there going forward? And why are you,
therefore, looking to grow the car ﬂeet portfolio? Because if I remember correctly, that
was a problem book maybe seven, eight years ago, where you aggressively pulled away.
So maybe you can give some color around that.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Good questions, Michael. Maybe Tjeerd, you can maybe start on both. First, maybe
on the PIM and then on the motor segment. Then probably Maurice can add some color
from your view on motor --

A - Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Motor and car ﬂeet model, yes. Yes. So let me start with the ﬁrst question on the partial
internal model. So indeed, we expect a positive beneﬁt coming from the PIM, but
obviously too early to indicate the magnitude. Typically, we have the Non-life company
capitalized at a very eﬃcient level. With the current reported Solvency II level of 124%. So
yes, normally, if there are, let's say minuses, as you've also seen in '19 and '20, for
instance, we were anticipating the VIVAT acquisition. So VIVAT was partly lower or there
was the lapse of the internal reinsurance, that could aﬀect remittances. Now this could be
one that is more on the positive side.
So there we would upstream more to the group and then obviously it's within our group
capital policy that also Bernhard has explained how much we distribute to shareholders.
Page 13 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

But if indeed, there would be a positive then -- and there is room for the, yes, local
business unit remittance or dividend recommendation to support such remittance to
group, then that is something that indeed could be expected as a one-oﬀ. Whether that
will be distributed at the shareholders is a diﬀerent question, right? So that is in line, I
think with what Bernhard could comment on. Yes. On motor. Then, yes, maybe speciﬁcally
on car ﬂeets Let me cover that one. Then you can give some color on the motor portfolio,
Maurice.
So car ﬂeets, we indeed aggressively pulled away from the unproﬁtable segment. We
were in large car ﬂeets that, yes, we're moving from one insurer to the other, and they
were not very proﬁtable. We didn't believe that there would be a good path to continue.
So we're still of the same view today. However we have embarked on a new approach
towards midsized car ﬂeets up to 250 vehicles, where we combine the expertise of ABW,
which is a broker where we have a minority participation that specialize in this segment as
prevention services knows the good risks. There we're selectively seeing how we can
participate in that growth. So it's not a shift in strategy. It's just a new proﬁtable segment
that we believe that we are well positioned for to capture, yes. So in general, on the motor
portfolio, Maurice, maybe you can share some color on the health of the motor portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maurice Koopman
Yes. Good question, Michael. Of course motor is always a challenging market in the
Netherlands. We see, however that if you're focusing on pricing, especially on data
gathering and pricing on the right segments, then there is room for proﬁtability in the
motor segments. You see, of course that the market is from -- is a hard market. So it's
more room for price increases. But also our own actions strict underwriting, and we
learned a lot, of course from our direct label OHRA. We take that into the other labels, we
are well positioned to have structurally good proﬁt on the motor portfolio. Especially if
you combine it, you see that with the SME portfolio with prevention, and of course
servicing, that helps a lot in improving our motor business. So that's why we believe in the
proﬁtable portfolio.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Michael. Then next question by e-mail from Michael Huttner from Berenberg. I
think three questions. (Operator Instructions) First question from Michael is on the DNA
business. How quickly we would expect it to return to proﬁt, pricing or portfolio problem?
And do we need to acquire a business to diversify away from the concentration in the
medical sector? Good question, I think focused on individual disability.
Then secondly, a question on inﬂation. If higher inﬂation is structural, what is the impact
from back book reserving, what actions can you take? And maybe also a question on
Non-life, but maybe Bernhard also interesting for you if your perspective from a group
level on your view on impact of inﬂation?
Then thirdly, from Michael, the question on the current levels of proﬁtability of Vivat's
DNA and Non-life in the First Quarter of 2021? Well we obviously have not disclosed our
numbers. For the First Quarter, we will disclose our ﬁrst half year numbers in August, but

Page 14 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

maybe Tjeerd, you can maybe add some color on what we've seen in 2020 already in the
trends. Tjeerd, do you want to start on individual disability?

FINAL

A - Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Yes. So ﬁrst question, disability and accident, how quickly will it turn to proﬁt? So we
always separate the disability and accident business in group and in individual. So with
regards to group, which is about 2/3 of our portfolio, the main impact that we've seen
there in 2020 is COVID, speciﬁcally related to the sickness portfolio and the eﬀects of the
lower IFRS discount rate. Both of which, we would expect to return to the normal healthy
proﬁtability levels rather quickly because COVID, we would expect to go away and also
return to normal stickiness levels in companies. The lower IFRS discount rate, we've
priced in group D&A also again per the ﬁrst of January. So there, we would see the
recovery of group D&A to be rather quickly.

Bloomberg Transcript

For individual disability, so this is 1/3 of our portfolio, where in the end portfolio, we had
exposure to speciﬁc medical segment, where the burn out rates were higher than in other
parts of the portfolio. So there, we've taken actions, as Maurice explained. So we had a
price increase of 10%. We launched a conversion product. We did stricter underwriting
criteria. There, we see already the ﬁrst signs that we believe that we can restore
proﬁtability over the longer term. So we're very happy to see that progress. However for
this 1/3 of the portfolio, it takes longer to return to the healthy proﬁtability levels. That is
more a couple of years then, let's say the shorter-term for group D&A to recover.
One last question, so should we diversify way by acquiring another book, we did. So we
acquired Viva business. So VIVAT had a similar-sized portfolio as ourselves, and they were
not exposed to the medical segment. So much, they were much more in white color. So
that diversiﬁcation beneﬁt in the D&A is obviously also helping ourselves, and there's no
need from that perspective to acquire an extra book that's already in the current book.
So the second question was on inﬂation. Inﬂation yes, the impact on the backlog
preserving for Non-life business is typically priced in. So it's a very short term business. So
we renew contracts rather quickly. Most of them in one year or in three years. And for the
longer term is typically priced is in. Yes. So maybe Bernhard on inﬂation, you can say
something on the rest of group, but for Non-life, yes, this is not a very material problem.
And last question. Last question was on the current proﬁtability level, indeed, of the First
Quarter. So indeed, as Jelmer said, we do not disclose the First Quarter. So the second
half results will, of course follow. So what I can say is that in 2020, we had the D&A
business at a combined ratio of 102.6. And let's say P&C, much lower and the overall
combined ratio we had was 95.3 with the eﬀects on D&A that I just explained to my ﬁrst
answer. So this is partly elevated and P&C, especially the motor business obviously had
lower claims frequency, where we ended up with a healthy 95.3. Now for the First Quarter,
we would expect, let's say the trend on D&A to improve with the measures that we've
taken and that we have announced. And for the First Quarter, as COVID is still in place,
you could expect claims frequency to be similar in -- than we saw in the COVID quarters of
last year. Post-COVID, we would expect the claims frequency to also normalize for the

Page 15 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

motor business. Obviously the continued eﬀects on the improvements, actions that we've
taken on. So that gives you a bit of color on how we see this year developing.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Tjeerd. Maybe Bernhard, could you share your views on the inﬂation risk from
a group perspective?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. Two or three remarks from a group perspective.

Bloomberg Transcript

So ﬁrst one, looking at our Life & Pension business, most of the liabilities are nominal
liabilities, deﬁned beneﬁt kind of liabilities that are not exposed to inﬂation and inﬂation
risk and where we have books of business where there is a link to inﬂation, we explicitly
hedge it. So from Life & Pension, there's no exposure coming through and in general,
higher inﬂationary environment also means higher interest rate environment, typically,
there, I think I pointed out that this is an environment which is also supporting our
business model, especially Life & Pension business because then certain products are
then more proﬁtable. Also, there are more business cases that are depending on interest
rate level. So that is favorable for us.
Being the Chief Risk Oﬃcer, of course I have to point out to the risks. They relate to
expense risk that we have to manage, but which, again we have in our hands, and the
economic environment may lead to suppression of risk premiums of investments for some
time. So that would be then the economic outlook that may be than on the negative side.
But in general, again higher inﬂation -- or higher interest rate environment is a positive for
us.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Bernhard. Okay. Then the next question from Benoit Petrarque from Kepler.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Now, basically, two questions on my side. The ﬁrst one was on the comments you made
around data analytics in Non-life. I mean this is a tool used to improve the underwriting. I
was trying to understand how much potential do you see in terms of potential impact on
combined ratio, how much potential you see in the future? And how much you've
achieved so far on that. So have you done a lot already? Or you consider that you still
room to go in terms of analysis -- on data analytics. That's the ﬁrst one.
And the second one, it's moderating to the risk. I think you mentioned that there's room
for rerisking and you've got this kind of EUR 200 million uplift in OCG, and just wanted to
get a feeling about how much is still left, you think on the kind of 2-, 3-year time horizon?
And you touch based on this margin on mortgages. I was wondering if -- clearly, there has
been some pressure recently, and whether you see that as temporary or that's something
we should kind of plug-in the model for the longer run, if you're happy to still be on the -on this market with much lower margins on mortgages.
Page 16 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Yes. Thank you, Benoit. Clear questions. Tjeerd, would you like to start on data analytics?
Maybe, Maurice, you can add your color on speciﬁc experience you might have from
OHRA and then Bernhard, would you like to take the question on rerisking? Tjeerd, would
you like to start?

A - Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Yes. So thanks very much, Benoit, for your question. So as you can imagine, we were an
end, we acquired Delta Lloyd with a Non-life business. We acquired Feedlot with a Nonlife business within an end. We already had a direct label with bancassurance labels. So
we, in our strategy, identiﬁed a real potential to pull all the data from all the diﬀerent
labels from direct, from bancassurance, from brokers and Richard also with external data.
Then when you have all the data combined in one pool with a data scientist analyzing it
and then coming up with either retention models or looking at bodily injury speciﬁcally,
there are a lot of diﬀerent things that you can do with it. It's really a core capability for a
Non-life company, always has been. But with new technologies and these new data
capabilities. We believe that this is our largest driver for value creation on the Non-life
side. So if you see our OCG improvement slide towards the target of EUR 225 million
(inaudible) this is the ﬁrst one we mention, and there's a lot of actions that we have
already taken. And Maurice mentioned some of them in his presentation.
So have we started with this? Absolutely. So we did lots of actions, I think it's really 100
and sometimes even thousands of small actions that we take on diﬀerent product lines. So
yes, we have started, and we see already some of those acts bearing fruits in our portfolio.
But we also believe that towards 2023, there's a lot of further value that we believe that
we can capture to reach, of course the target of EUR 225 million with OCG. And Maurice,
you could give a few couple of examples and then maybe quickly go to Bernhard.

A - Maurice Koopman
Yes. A good question, and it's for Non-life, of course a key topic, a very important from
OHRA, I've experienced that data is the foundation of your company. Within OHRA, we
did a lot of data analytics, especially on behavior of customers, especially if they use the
portals you can buy analytics, you can predict customer behavior. That's crucial, for
instance, to increase your retention rates, but also topics like fraud detection, pricing is, of
course the main topic. So data and data analytics is here to stay. We see a lot of
opportunities in diﬀerent kind of segments. And as for us, as a Non-life organization
crucial, we have a lot of experience, but the developments go so fast that there are a lot
of opportunities in this area.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, both, very clear. Bernhard, on the rerisking.

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. On your rerisking question, Benoit. First, well, rerisking as part of our strategy to
achieve the EUR 1.5 billion target in 2023. We are well on track, like I pointed out. And
from the EUR 200 million that we targeted, we have achieved already EUR 170 million that
Page 17 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

will contribute in 2021 fully to OCG. That means EUR 120 million were already reﬂected
last year and EUR 50 million in addition, also now are coming through in 2021. But please
be aware that in 2020 was a special year. We were able to take advantage of the market -the turmoils and the market developments to especially invest in the more liquid public
markets. This year, we are continuing with a more gradual, slower shift of our assets into
more the illiquid space, mortgages, real estate. That, of course will not have the same
pace as we have seen in 2020 and the beginning of this year.
Now on mortgages, we still see that this is a very attractive asset classes even so spreads
have tightened. You're right, they have tightened really materially in the beginning of this
year. But given the low risk proﬁle, our very strong sourcing and underwriting capabilities,
the spreads are still attractive from a risk-return perspective. We also see that after the
client rates have stayed stable over the last month, while interest rates went up, so
spreads went down, now client rates start to move. Typically, there's a timing eﬀect
between interest rates moving and clients rate moving. So we expect that the spreads will
also catch up and that we will also get back to better spread levels also in the next time.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Very clear. Then the next question, I think is coming from Ashik Musaddi
from JPMorgan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

I have like a couple of questions. You can help me. First of all, I want to understand that
OCG interest rate sensitivity point again. So what I want to understand is EUR 1.5 billion is
your guidance. Then interest rates this year have moved, let's say by 45 basis points, let's
just say 50 basis points. So how do the numbers move for next year, year after? So are we
talking about EUR 1.5 billion becoming EUR 1.75 billion and then moving EUR 20 million
from there on, or are we talking about EUR 1.5 billion becoming EUR 1.75 billion and then
dropping again back to EUR 1.5 billion and then moving EUR 20 million. So just need a bit
of clarity that extra EUR 245 million that you mentioned, is that going to stay here? Or is
that going to drop oﬀ? So that's ﬁrst question.
Second thing I would say is, how do we think about the P&C business? I mean -- sorry,
longevity reinsurance. I mean clearly, you mentioned that longevity reinsurance is a topic
that you would consider going forward, but what needs to happen for you to do longevity
reinsurance? I mean your capital position is good. If you do longevity reinsurance, at
some point, you have to put money on the table for the taker as well. Why would you do
that? So that's the second question I have.
And thirdly is you mentioned that OCG beneﬁt from higher rates will be oﬀset by tighter
spreads on mortgages now possible, that's possible mortgage spreads would have
tighter, but that should also beneﬁt the solvency ratio as well. So can you give us some
clarity on what has happened to mortgage spreads so that we can understand what has
happened to Solvency II ratio as well this year because of spreads.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}
Page 18 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Yes. Yes. Very clear. Good point, Ashik. I think all questions for you, Bernhard. So that is
also easy. It's to you how you want to take it in each order.

FINAL

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Thank you, Ashik, for the questions. I'll start with longevity. Because longevity risk is still
one -- not one, it's our peak risk in insurance and business -- the business risk, so in our
risk proﬁle. From a strategic point of view, it makes sense to reduce this peak exposure
over time. This mainly is, if you look at risk/return consideration then it is attractive for also
shareholders because simply the amount of capital that we can set free. So that is relieved
is disproportional to the return that we give up for the reinsurance premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

So -- and that is still -- we are not still in the sweet spot where this was changed. Therefore,
this is the main consideration behind it. Are we under time pressure? No? Because we
have the risk-bearing capacity, we have the solvency, so we can take it really also slowly
and opportunistically, we can look at the portfolio and see where there are interesting
opportunities, and that's exactly how we do it and how we are progressing with longevity
risk.
Maybe then linking it to the last question on solvency. Yes. There are some moving pieces,
but expectation is that currently, our solvency ratio is at around 210%. So the main -- so
mainly the same number as year-end 2020. There have been share buyback and stepdown of ultimate forward rates that were negatively positively was the rise in interest rates,
but the spread tightening you mentioned is also in the market developments, a negative
position. But if you take all of them together, then more or less, they all level out so that
we are estimating that we are around the same solvency position that we were end of
2020.
And now the ﬁrst one, on the impact of a 50 basis point interest risk rate shift. Well ﬁrst of
all, we have a target, which is EUR 1.5 billion for 2023, and that will not change. So that's
our target. The impact of interest rates going up now is what I would summarize as part of
market development and no spreads as they have negative imparity in the First Quarter is
compensating. So these are the moving or ﬂuctuating parts around, let's say our path to
the EUR 1.5 billion that we see. This -- maybe now to the point of how to interpret the EUR
245 million. If you see this as a contribution because it's lowering the UFR drag mainly,
and that means the -- in the -- through the runoﬀ, there's a higher contribution every year,
positive coming through, well, then, it's really a positive contribution to be expected as a
onetime impact, which helps in 2021.
Then in the next years, this EUR 20 million I indicated are then the positive impact coming
through on an annual basis. But what you have to deduct are the EUR 40 million that I
showed the over the expectation end of year 2020. That was the base case that we had
end of last year. These EUR 40 million per annum, they would -- you have to deduct from
the kind of projection in the coming years. So it's really to interpret as a ﬂuctuation around
this growth path to the EUR 1.5 billion coming from market developments, interest rate
and spreads that you see. And unless we are really seeing a substantially higher interest
rate environment for a longer time, I would also see no need to reconsider here any kind
of target.
Page 19 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe Ashik, we are also able to catch up after this call to walk through all the details
in more detail through all the numbers. Okay. Then we go to the next question, which is a
question by e-mail from Robin van den Broek. Apologies, Robin, that apparently the
connection was not up to standards to make it work. Your ﬁrst question, are you able to
increase remittances or dividends to shareholders now that OCG is increasing on the
back of higher rates? That is very much in line with what we just discussed with Ashik.
Then secondly, what is the impact of tighter mortgage spreads on OCG? I think again two
questions for you, Bernhard. I think we kind of touched upon?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. I think I can be quick, but I think very much to the point that the remittance capacity
now I tried to show that this is not really impacted by interest rate changes, interest rates
going down. That's mainly because of these moving bits and pieces between stock and
ﬂow that we already take into account in our dividend decision and in our projections to
be sure that we have the reliable paybacks.

Bloomberg Transcript

If spreads or if interest rates are really higher for longer, and if the environment is in a way
that we see a higher interest rate environment, then again it's positive for our business
model, and therefore, then in the long run, also higher OCG will translate into a higher
potential for remittances and our remittance capacity will be strengthened. So I think
that's it in a nutshell.
And tight -- the impact of tighter mortgage spreads on OCG. While we have a sensitivity
that we also published the 50 basis points sensitivity of mortgages is around EUR 120
million impact on OCG. So around this order of magnitude, I would assume is the impact
just from tightening. If you compare this to the EUR 245 million of interest rates, then you
get to a good estimate of the total market impact that we saw until year-to-date.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

We have a short follow-up question from Robin, which is with higher Solvency II ratio than
peers and interest rates going up. When does this become more fungible? Well I think at
our Capital Markets Day we talked about the priority of having a strong and resilient
balance sheet. But maybe, Bernhard, if you can add some color?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. I think you summarized it already very well, because the again the environment that
we are in and also the sensitivities that we see this environment makes us comfortable
with our current position. If we are entering another economic environment and there
may be changes, and this would be something to reconsider, but I would also see for the
next time that we have no additional aspects that we will take into account coming from
just this kind of interest rate movements.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Page 20 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Thanks, clear. Okay. Then we go to our next live question from Farquhar Murray from
Autonomous.

FINAL

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Just two quick questions from me. Just starting on the Non-life side. So to Maurice, I think
with regards to this kind of disability legacy portfolio, I just wondered if you could give us
some color around the scope of that size of it, and also maybe perhaps how the duration
of that runoﬀ exercise and the reserving around it? Then secondly, just a Bernhard, on the
interest rate side. You mentioned a kind of move from swaps into long bonds during the
quarter. I just wondered if that had any impact at all in term modeling of solvency or
capital generation until I presume not.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe on the D&A, Tjeerd, would you like to start with some views on portfolio of
individual disability.

A - Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Yes. So any individual disability, policy conditions are up to retirement. So in that
sense, it's quite comparable to individual life policy. So there is a right of the policyholder
to keep that policy in place for that period of time. Obviously there are some rights on the
insurer side to increase prices and introduce new products, reﬂect underwriting criteria.
But this is the way that individual disability is structured.
Now in practice, of course these are a lot of freelancers and people that are not covered
by the government scheme of disability and excellence. So it's a private choice to have
such a policy in place for this target market. Yes. We do also see if people switch jobs or
their employment conditions change that people cancel their policy. So the average
duration, I would say is more sort of six or seven years, but there can be somewhat longer
tail, especially for smaller book of business. And especially, if there would be yes, let's say
a more problematic part probably other runoﬀ can take longer in such a situation. But
normally, it would be in that range.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

And the total size of the portfolio is around EUR 300 million to EUR 400 million, I think?

A - Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Yes. The total individual disability is around EUR 300 million, and the Movir book is about
half of that. And Movir is the book where medical professionals are represented.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Okay. And maybe for you, Bernhard, the question on the actions that you took on the
interest rates risk?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}
Page 21 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Yes. There are mainly two impacts on, yes, solvency or on OCG. First one is moving into
government bonds has a positive contribution to OCG. It's in the order of a low 2-digit
million number. But on the other side, the credit spread risk goes up, so the SCR
consumption goes up. So that means solvency capital requirements are impacted, but
also in a not really material way but in a way that you see it but not really changing our
position.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Just adding all those elements together, so higher interest rates, narrower spreads and
obviously that kind of shift into longer bonds. I mean that at EUR 1.5 billion target in 2023?
Is it easier or more diﬃcult? I get the sense, it's kind of a much, much.

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

I think especially from the impacts we discussed around market credit investments and
interest rates, there we are really well progressing. I think that is right that you got this
notion, but there are some parts in the strategy where we are working on, where we have
to deliver, which will take 2021, '22 and '23, like for Non-life, but also in the -- in some of
the elements I was pointing to, like the tailwind coming from the runoﬀ in OCG from
interest rates. Also, this is an impact that comes through every year, contributes every
year. So it's -- well, 2021 will be, especially compared to the base 2020, really a good step
forward. But then still, of course there's a lot of homework to do.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Then the next question is also by video from Steven Haywood from HSBC.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Two questions. One on Non-life and one on solvency. You mentioned right at the
beginning that it's a hardening market, I think and I would like to know more speciﬁcally
what level of price increases are you putting through in the major ﬁre and motor lines,
what sort of average price increases and how much claims inﬂation is coming through. So
we can get a sense of what the delta is between the two.
Then on the solvency, I'd like to know what Bernhard's view is on the risk margin. Whether
you'd like to see this change in the future, whether you -- whether the IOP can potentially
look at adjusting it somehow, what would you like them to do to the risk margin?

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

That is potentially a nice conversation that you could have, Bernhard with Steven, on the
risk market, try to keep it short.

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. Yes.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}
Page 22 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Then Tjeerd, can you then afterwards talk about the hardening market in Non-life? Would
you like to start Bernhard?

FINAL

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. Very much. Steven, that really goes to the heart of the discussion around the Solvency
II 2020 review and what is now under review. Because there the risk margin is now also on
the table and up for discussion, there are some suggestions that would lower the risk
margin, and I think that's very welcome by the industry but also by us.
Also in my view, if I just look at our balance sheet for our longevity risk, we have a standalone SCR of EUR 5 billion, and we have a risk margin of EUR 8 billion. So it's an amount
of capital. If it's solvency capital requirement or if it's an additional reserve that we hold,
it's very high now and to recalibrate this and to come to a regime where this is more in
line with really what is risk adequate, now I could not welcome it more.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Okay. Then Tjeerd, would you like to say something about the hardening market?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Yes. So thank you for your question, Steven. So indeed, the market has been hard over
the past two years. We were very pleased with that because having to complete major
migrations from Delta Lloyd and VIVAT in a harder market is, of course easier than if there
is a lot of (inaudible) going on so that made it helpful to keep the retention rates up and
not to take action on portfolios where we saw the need. We don't have a cross book
approach where we say well, let's increase prices across all books. We have quite a
segmented approach. So for instance, for individual disability, we did a maximum
increase on that particular book of 10%.
On mandated agents, it's not been just price increases over the past years, but also
discussions on commission and, of course on expenses. So yes, in motor, we've indeed
increased prices. So the average rate of increase was around 5% in past years on motor,
for instance. So in general, I think you're trying to get at sort of what is the improvement
that you could expect on the combined ratio coming from price increases. So I would
rather put it as the target of 94% to 96% that we have envisioned for the Non-life company
in 2023. Through the cycle, this is the range that we are targeting, and that includes
underwriting improvements, the OCG rerisking, price increases, all the beneﬁts from data.
So all of that combined brings us into the range of that target. But yes, we do expect the
market to be hard.
Still, in the coming one to two years, we see also other players to be rational and
disciplined in pricing. Yes. I think on a longer outlook, Non-life is typically a cyclical market
that is hard to predict, and nobody has a glass ball for, but that will be sort of my
guidance for you.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Page 23 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Thank you, Tjeerd. That's very helpful. Just a small note from my end. We aim to ﬁnish in
around 15 minutes. So let's try to answer as many questions as possible. One of our peers
is also starting with the presentation at, I think 4 p.m. CET. So let's aim for another 15
minutes approximately.
Next question is from I think Hadley Cohen from Deutsche Bank by e-mail. Two questions
I can see. The ﬁrst one is on the assumptions that we included in the EUR 245 million uplift
from OCG relating to higher interest rates, whether there's anything else in that scenario
apart from interest rates impacting that number? Then secondly, the question on
remittance capacity. If that remittance capacity is not aﬀected by interest rate changes,
what about the link between OCG and free cash ﬂow, which we also talked about at the
CMD. Bernhard, would you be able to talk about them?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So the ﬁrst question on the assumptions behind the EUR 245 million, it's interest rate
only. I already pointed to the negative impact I expect from developments coming from
tightening of the mortgage spreads in the Netherlands or the Dutch mortgages of around
EUR 100 million to EUR 150 million. So this is what you would have to take into account to
come to the full market developments. If you look at the year-to-date changes on our
OCG. So that are the main two drivers to consider coming from market developments.
Now remittances, I tried to point out that I would always diﬀerentiate between a shortand longer-term horizon if it comes to interest rates. The short-term impact is where I said,
well, this has no impact on our remittance capacities because the short-term impact very
much relates to just being able to digest market volatility, market developments, interest
spread moves and not to react with this in our dividend or share buyback policy. I think
that is one of our strengths, and that is also what our solvency position is signaling and is
also enabling. Longer term, again if interest rate rises and we are in a higher interest rate
environment, then there will be additional contribution to OCG it will take some time until
this then come through in also the ability to really pay out the cash and have the
remittances going forward. But that is mainly then the question on sustainability of the
interest rate level for the time to come and then also the time lag until this really is
showing up into free cash ﬂow on holding level that we can then use for potential
remittances.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. That's makes total sense. Let's then move to a follow-up question from Robin
van den Broek by e-mail. Impact of higher rates on excess return of real estate and
equities. Will the full absolute yield make its way into OCG? Indeed, use assumptions for
both as categories? Then the second question is, what is the saturation point of
mortgages in your asset mix? Does potentially low LTV on your current book help? I think
relating to higher house prices. Are you able to talk about --

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. Yes. Robin, so to the ﬁrst question, the -- for real estate and equities, we have risk
premium assumptions that we get are long-term looking back over some years. Those we

Page 24 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

are not changing frequently but that would really be a more fundamental shift in the
market that would trigger to revisit them. So therefore, they are stable and they are not
impacted by interest rate level, meaning also that has no impact on the contribution on
OCG, just beside the market value of the respective positions.
Now saturation point for mortgages. So yes, the loan-to-value ratio is coming down, which
is good. In the Netherlands, we are now at 65% to 66%. So it's -- that's really good. That
makes the asset class from a risk/return perspective, even more attractive. What we do is
that in our strategic asset allocation in the optimization, we look at what our percentage
allocations in the diﬀerent asset classes. And here then Dutch mortgages with this
development are getting more attractive because they simply consume less risk capital if
loan-to-value goes down. That is, let's say implicit eﬀect that via this route, we take them
up into our allocation. And for the next years, we see also additional possibility to grow in
this asset class.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. Thank you, Bernhard. Then the next question is from Andrew Baker, also by email. The ﬁrst question on Non-life. Are you still open in the M&A Non-life sector? Or does
your high market share prevent this? Then a second question on the current spread levels,
can you give a sense of the diﬀerence in return on SCR for corporate bonds, mortgages
and (inaudible), maybe qualitatively, Bernhard, you could add some color on that. But
Tjeerd, would you like to start on M&A in Non-life, yes?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tjeerd Bosklopper

{BIO 20235210 <GO>}

Yes. So we are very pleased with the two acquisitions we've done in Non-life. So Delta
Lloyd and VIVAT very substantial acquisitions in the Non-life part that we're currently
integrating. So Delta Lloyd, of course already being completed, and VIVAT, we're making
a lot of progress. So building that scale and exploiting that skill in our strategy, as we have
explained today is what we're doing for the coming two years. That also made us the
number one. Yes, if you are the number one, then obviously if you would look at other,
let's say Non-life manufacturing opportunities, yes. Compared to M&A, we're always
disciplined and rational. We would look at it. But really, our base case is organic. We're
very happy with the position we're in. We're happy with the acquisitions and our strategy
yes, is to obtain the value from those two acquisitions. So yes, an opportunity comes by,
we will look at it, but we're very pleased with the position we have.

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Okay. Yes, Andrew. On your question, the diﬀerence in risk return view on the asset
classes. Clearly, Dutch mortgages stand out because of the low-risk proﬁle and for very
good reasons, with the whole institutional framework that we have in the Netherlands, but
also our underwriting capabilities that we can use in sourcing our own bank LTV we just
discussed. So it's -- that's the main driver that this is outstanding.
Then it's to jump from the leader in risk/return to the one that we are most concerned
with, that's mainly government bonds. So to move out of government bonds so if you
look at this on a longer time horizon the way we want to go, and that's mainly also simply

Page 25 of 27



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

because of once being not attractive from a risk/return proﬁle. And corporate bonds as a
whole spectrum in between, where last year's spread levels were very attractive for,
especially investment-grade single head, for example, investment-grade corporate
bonds, but they have tightened again. Now other niche segments are still attractive from
our perspective. But this is where we are more selective, and therefore, also, it takes more
time to build up exposure, and there we are taking now the, let's say smaller steps in
being a little bit more selective building up the portfolio.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Okay. Very clear. Then the last question of the session today is from Benoit Petrarque,
which is hopefully a video question.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes. Just coming back on the Solvency II ratio, you just mentioned that it was kind of
stable to 10. I looked at it end of April, maybe something happened in May but at the
impression that the mortgage spreads tightening was very positive at about 8percentage
points and also large positive on equity. Then you have the capital generation. I mean you
add also the payment, the share buyback and the (inaudible), but it's -- I'm a bit surprised
that it's actually ﬂat given the mortgage spread is a big positive on the stock. Did you see
anything special on the government bonds, spread in the month of May? Or trying to
understand why it's actually ﬂat since the beginning of the year in Solvency II?

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you, Ben. Thanks, Bernhard. Final question for you.

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes. We -- you're right, the negative impact I was referring to was the OCG. So -- and if we
now switch to Solvency II, the tightening is positive. Also equity developments, they also
contributed positively, but there were other market developments on government bonds.
Now you saw a tightening of the spreads in corporate bonds a little bit. So smaller
movements, but adding them all up leaves to small positive impact from market
developments, and then I pointed to the other ones, like share buyback inclusion,
ultimate forward rate step down, which were negative.
Then on the positive side, in addition, business development until now, also positively
contributed to the ratio. So these are the main contributors to the kind of ﬂattish
development.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Benoit. Thank you, Bernhard. Okay. So I think we are now about to close this
session. We have come to an end of the webinar. Thank you, Tjeerd. Thank you, Maurice.
Thank you, Bernhard. Of course all of you for attending this webinar. Stay safe and
healthy. We hope to see you all again soon -- and then hopefully in person. Thank you.

Page 26 of 27



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Page 27 of 27

