Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Antonio Cano, Managing Director Europe
Christophe Boizard, Chief Financial Officer
Emmanuel Van Grimbergen, Chief Risk Officer
Filip Coremans , Managing Director Asia
Hans De Cuyper, Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi
Benoit Petrarque
Colm Kelly
David Barma
Farooq Hanif
Farquhar Murray
Fulin Liang
Jason Kalamboussis

Bloomberg Transcript

Robin van den Broek
William Hawkins

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Ageas Conference Call for the Full Year Results of
2020. I am pleased to present to Mr.Hans De Cuyper, Chief Executive Officer; and
Mr.Christophe Boizard, Chief Financial Officer.
For the first part of this call, let me remind you that all participants will remain on a listenonly mode and afterwards, there will be a question-and-answer session. Please also note
that this conference is being recorded. I would like to hand the call over to Mr.Hans De
Cuyper, Chief Executive Officer and Mr.Christopher Boizard, Chief Financial Officer.
Gentlemen, please go ahead.

Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for dialing into this conference call and
for being with us for the presentation of the results of Ageas for the full year 2020.

Page 1 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

As usual, I'm joined in the room by my colleagues of the Executive Committee Christophe
Boizard our CFO; Emmanuel Van Grimbergen, CRO; Antonio Cano, Managing Director
Europe; and Filip Coremans, Managing Director, Ageas.
In a year that has brought so many challenges and uncertainties, we are happy to report
full-year results in line with our initial guidance of EUR850 million to EUR950 million.
Indeed, our net result amounts to EUR870 million when excluding the EUR332 million of
net capital gains related to the FRESH Securities and the negative impact of EUR61 million
coming from the RPN(i) reevaluation. As you know, the COVID pandemic dampened our
Life results as the volatile equity markets resulted in equity impairments, while the
lockdowns weighted on our revenues from dividends, parkings and commercial real
estate.
Nevertheless, we managed to reach our guidance clearly illustrating our strong operating
performance and the strength of our well-diversified business model. Moreover, despite
these exceptional circumstances, we attained this year, almost all the targets set for our
three-year strategic plan Connect21. In Life, the guaranteed operating margin which
suffered from the reduced amount of capital gains has been gradually improving over the
months and amounted to 90 basis points for the full year in the middle of our target
range, thanks to a strong underwriting performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

The group unit-linked margin also pursued its steady improvement quarter-after-quarter
and ended the year at 29 basis points, only 1 basis point below the target wage. In nonLife, the lockdowns led to lower claims frequency, especially in Motor and this resulted in
an exceptionally low combined ratio of 91.3%, far below our target of 96%.
Our inflows have also proven to be resilient in this challenging market, with a decline
limited to 1%, thanks to a solid recovery in China. In Europe, the decrease was limited to
the Life inflows, which suffered from the lockdown whereas non-Life inflows remained
resilient.
I would also like to stress the strength of our balance sheet. After the drop suffered in the
first quarter, our investment portfolio has now been fully restored and even stands at a
higher level than at the end of 2019. In particular, the unrealized capital gains on the equity
portfolio, which went down to EUR0.2 billion at 100% at the end of the first quarter are
now back to EUR800 million in line with year-end 2019. Additionally, despite the negative
impact of the financial markets throughout the year, our Solvency stands at a strong 193%,
comfortably above our target of 175%.
Lastly, Ageas received in 2020, an amount of EUR658 million cash upstream from the
local entities and our cash position currently amounts to a strong EUR1.2 billion, of which
only EUR31 million remains ring-fenced for the Fortis settlement, which provide us with
great flexibility.
You may remember that 2019 was a record year for Ageas, leading to an all-time high
dividend of EUR2.65, which represents a 20% increase on the prior year. Given, our strong
result in 2020, coupled with the solidity of our balance sheet, the Board will, in full respect
Page 2 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

of the guidance issued by the National Bank of Belgium, propose a dividend in line with
last year at EUR2.65, corresponding to a 56% payout ratio.
As for 2021, the COVID pandemic is not yet over, and it will continue to bring
uncertainties. However, 2020 has demonstrated the resilience of our business model and
with our solid balance sheet, we feel that we are starting the year on a firm footing. We
are, therefore, confident in our ability to achieve this year a group net profit, excluding the
impact of RPN i), around EUR900 million in the middle of our guidance of EUR850 million
to EUR950 million.
Before handing over to Christophe, I would like to mention that in this intense year, not
only have we secured the present, but we also have prepared the future. Indeed, we
have carried out our strategy to expand in fast-growing markets as we have finalized two
M&A operations to strengthen and expand our co-operation with our partners in China
and India. As you may have seen, we have also announced yesterday a new transaction.
The acquisition of 40% stake in AvivaSa, which is the fifth largest life insurance company
and a leading private pension provider in Turkey.
We are already present in the non-Life Turkish market to our stake in AKSigorta, which we
manage with our partner, Sabanci. This operation is a great opportunity to enter now the
fast-growing Turkish life insurance market and to further strengthen our partnership with
Sabanci, which owns 40% of AvivaSa.

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, I will now hand over to Christophe for details on the results.

Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Thank you, Hans and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As mentioned by Hans, our
net result amounts to EUR870 million, when excluding the impact from the FRESH
securities and the RPN(i). The COVID pandemic had a contrasting impact on our P&L
between claim results and investment results. The lower capital gains and recurring
financial income had a negative impact of EUR220 million, which was only partly
compensated by the reduced claim frequency, which amounted to EUR135 million in 2020.
So overall these high level estimates give a negative impact of around EUR85 million on
our results. This impact remains broadly in line with what we communicated earlier in the
year. As usual, I will give you some comments per segment and I start with Belgium on
Slide 8. We recorded a solid result this year despite a lower recurring investment income
from commercial real estate, Interparking and dividends and a reduced contribution from
capital gains.
Indeed, the realization of a substantial amount of capital gain in the fourth quarter was not
sufficient to fully offset the impairments recorded in the first quarter mid high market
volatility. However, despite these exceptional conditions, the Life guaranteed operating
margin remained sound, amounting to 77 bps for the full year, but slightly below our
objective of 85 to 95 bps. In Non-Life, we enjoyed a strong performance, thanks to lower
claim frequency, resulting in an excellent combined ratio of 90.3%. In the fourth quarter,
Page 3 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

the favorable claims experience in household and Motor was partly offset by an interest
rate related review of provision in in liability products, adjusting the balance sheet to this
prolonged low interest rate environment.
On the commercial front, due to the lockdown measures, Life inflows were below the
exceptionally high level of last year, despite high volumes in unit-linked in the second half
of the year. On the contrary, non-Life inflows proved resilient and ended the year even
slightly above their level of last year.
In the UK, on Slide 9, the strong net result benefited from low claims frequency, mainly in
Motor which more than compensated for the adverse weather. This led to a satisfactory
combined ratio of 95.2%. In the fourth quarter, the continued favorable claim experience
in Motor was mitigated by an increased provision due to an expected increase in claims
inflation. On a positive note, this quarter brought the confirmation that claims related to
business interruption, even cancellations and rental insurance have remained very limited.
The divestment of our stake in Tesco underwriting drove the inflow down this quarter.
However, scope-on-scope, inflows are slightly up this year, thanks to new commercial
deals in household, while Motor inflow stabilized in the second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Continental Europe, Slide 10. The solid net result was driven by a strong non-Life
performance. The continued focus on expense management combined with lower claim
frequency in Motor and Accident & Health, resulted in an excellent combined ratio of
85.4% in Portugal.
In Turkey, the strong performance was as often mitigated by the adverse FX movement.
In Life, our guaranteed operating margin, which benefited from a lower level of capital
gains, remained however at the high level, even when excluding the impact of the reserve
release in Portugal in the first quarter of the year. This illustrates a strong underwriting
performance of the country. The unit-linked operating margin has been consistently
improving quarter-after-quarter. Thanks to an evolving product mix and this positive trend
is expected to continue in 2021.
The current low interest rate environment in Portugal weighted on the sales of
guaranteed products as we are shifting our commercial efforts towards unit linked and
Protection products. On the top of these products, we have launched a flexible pension
product, which contribute EUR181 million in 2021 -- 2020 sorry. Please note that this
product which is off balance sheet is not accounted for in the inflows.
In non-Life, inflows increased by 11% at constant FX, with growth in all business lines in
Portugal and an excellent commercial performance in Turkey impacted by the adverse FX
already mentioned.
In Asia, Slide 11, the solid operating performance was mitigated by the adverse evolution
of a discount rate used in China and by equity impairment which as you may remember,
were IFRS adjustments due to our prudent impairment rules.

Page 4 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

It is worth taking into account the fact that the local result of our Chinese partner, and
which is based the dividend we received, was not impacted by these impairments. If you
exclude these market impacts, the underlying performance was really strong both in Life
and non-Life. The lower Life result in the fourth quarter reflected the negative evolution of
the discount rate as well as the early start of the opening campaign in China to prepare
the new year so called jump sales.
The rebound in inflow recorded since Q2 continued in Q4 with inflows up 12% at constant
FX scope-on-scope resulting in a full year growth of 6%. This quarter also included the
first contribution of Taiping Re one month. The reinsurance segment on Slide 12 recorded
a high net result of EUR79 million this year, supported by the lower claim frequency in the
non-Life operation of the ceding entities of the group.
Moving now to the balance sheet items and capital position. As you can see Slide 13, the
total liquid assets stood at EUR1.2 billion at the end of the year. The decrease compared
to the beginning of the year is explained by the cash out for the tender of the FRESH and
by the EUR435 million payments made to the Fortis settlement.

Bloomberg Transcript

Today, only EUR31 million remain ring-fenced for the settlement. You might be surprised
to see that the settlement provision is still at EUR246 million. The reason for this
discrepancy is the time difference between payment we made to the claimant
organization Fortis settlement and payment made by Fortis settlement to the claimant
themselves. The cash out related to the M&A transactions in Taiping Re for EUR336
million and Ageas Federal Life in India for EUR56 million was more than compensated by
the successful EUR500 million Tier 2 debt issued in Q4.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that Ageas credit ratings improved in
the fourth quarter with S&P upgrading Ageas to A+ and Moody, raising the rating to A2
from A3, while also changing the outlook to positive.
As mentioned by Hans, our Group Solvency II ratio, I'm on Slide 14 now, stands at a strong
193%. In the fourth quarter, the debt issuance more than compensated for the impact of
the two M&A transactions outside of the Solvency II score.
However, the group solvency ratio was negatively impacted by market movements
consisting of the evolution of the RPN(i), inflation and equity symmetric adjustments. The
regulatory PIM, partial internal model solvency ratio, increased to a high 199% following
model improvements validated by the regulator.
Our operational the free capital generation, so Slide 15 now, amounted to EUR641 million,
including EUR132 million of dividend from our non-controlled participations. With EUR509
million operational free capital generation from the consolidated entities, we ended the
year in line with our operational free capital generation guidance of EUR500 million to
EUR540 million for the Solvency II scope. Despite the very low interest rate environment,
we maintain this guidance for 2021.
This is the end of my presentation, and I hand over to the operator now.
Page 5 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Questions And Answers
Operator

FINAL

(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) I ask you to limit yourself to three questions. The first
question comes from David Barma from Exane BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one I have is on the Asian
Life result where adjusting for the different factors you've been flagging in the last
quarters and years. The result has grown, but not as fast as we could have expected and
certainly not as fast as the reserves in China. Can you talk a little bit about the margin
trends you're seeing there and what we should expect for the coming years?
That's my first question. And then, the other two I have on solvency and on capital
generation. So first, on Q4 operating capital generation, there seems to be quite a few
moving parts in Q4, especially on the SCR. Can you help us bridge a little bit the Q4 OCG
number, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then lastly, on the PIM and the sort of bounce back of the solvency ratio in Belgium.
You mentioned some modeling updates there. Can you talk a little bit about what you've
done in -- on your Belgium PIM, please? Thank you.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, David. First question, I'll pass to Filip. Then Christophe will take the free
capital generation, and Manu will take the solvency.

A - Filip Coremans

{BIO 17614100 <GO>}

Yes, very good morning everybody. Yes, Asian result, you can see in many of your
headlines that it attracts quite a few of questions. So let me try to be a bit comprehensive
on it. First and foremost, indeed, if you look at the Q4 results, SEC, it's not a stellar
performance. And the overall result of EUR12 million is actually seasonally low.
Now that is a recurring effect. And if you look through it and it's predominantly in the life
market, there are two things that we definitely have to -- three things we have to keep in
mind. First and foremost, there is an absolute lack in comparison to normal years of
capital realization. There is EUR14 million realized capital gains in there. And secondly,
there is the impact of valuation interest rate in China, which weighted on the fourth
quarter results for EUR31 million.
Taking these out of the equation and also for the preceding year where the capital gains
were EUR33 million. And the valuation interest rate impact was actually a positive of

Page 6 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

around EUR19 million, the result is relatively flat, but low on the Life side, that we could
show an underlying of around EUR20 million.
Now the third component, and that brings me to margins and volumes is related to always
the buildup for the year-end campaign or the beginning of the year campaign in China,
where from mid-November onwards already, these campaigns are prepared, which
reduces the new business volumes booked. But at the same time, put higher pressure on
the costs made. And this typically reduces always the fourth quarter result. Therefore, it's
probably better to look through the cycles and at the full-year result because you most of
the time will find compensation in the first quarter.
If we look at the Asian yearly result, which was EUR269 million, there's only EUR15 million
capital gains in comparison to last year, where it was EUR127 million. So it's really low. So
let me come back on capital gains also looking forward. Secondly, valuation interest rate
impact in there was full EUR116 million this year in comparison to a positive EUR54 million
last year. If you take these two main blocks out of the equation, the underlying results,
excluding capital gains and excluding where you could call it the naked underlying result of
the Asian region, was at EUR370 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then looking forward there are definitely three or maybe four items to mention there. In
the EUR370 million, undeniably also in Asia, we had some positive impact of COVID in the
Non-Life lines. Roughly you can estimate that the improvement in the combined ratio say,
roughly EUR20 million could be attributed to positive effects of COVID in the Non-Life
lines, which would bring to an underlying, which is close to EUR350 million, the top most
guidance range.
Then the big questions that are there, and I can see that they pop-up everywhere. How
will that look, looking forward. So first, related to valuation interest rates. Last year, as I
said the overall impact was EUR116 million. And the valuation interest rate at the end of
the year, it landed at 3.29%.
Our estimates looking forward for this year, given the current rate that we see on the
Chinese 10-year and the evolution we saw over the last three years is that, that rate will
go further down to close to 3.15%. That would mean that you could roughly estimate or
expect an impact to valuation interest rates for the next year at a level, which is about 2/3
of what we observed this year.
That brings me to the second point, which is capital gains. Last year, we realized in that
region virtually no capital gains. Now, you are all very well aware that we took these
impairments and that contributes to it. But if you look at the evolution of the Asian equity
markets, and predominantly and here the most important one is China. You can see that,
that market actually did relatively well. And so the unrealized capital gain buffers. And you
can also see that reflected in the evolution of the shareholder equity of Asian region has
been more than replenished.
Just to give you a feel is at the end of year, just on the China equity book, the IFRS Ageas
share in unrealized gains had gone up to EUR350 million our share. This means that the
Page 7 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

potential to realize normal capital gain levels for the year coming, looking forward is
certainly there.
Thirdly, there were concerns about volumes and margins and the New Year campaign.
When we disclosed the six-months the first six-month figures you saw a sharp drop in
value new business and APE in Asia region. Now what we have observed in the second
half until the year end, is that there has been a strong recovery, both in terms of new
business volumes as well as the margins. The new management took charge of the China
operations locally has really put a focus on the right product lines.
So, at the end of the year, we'll see that in the additional disclosures we make on Asia
region, the APE is down 20% in the end, which shows an overall good recovery in terms of
sales volumes, but you can expect when the margins for the region to follow the similar
trends. Of course, the full disclosure of this will come, when our partner disclose these
figures, but it is very much in line with the APE evolution at the end of year.

Bloomberg Transcript

That brings me to the fourth point or the third point, if you wish, it's the opening
campaign. Since so much depends indeed in China on how much and what is sold in the
opening campaign. You have seen or you can see the release of the gross written
premium figures by Taiping for the first month. They are up 3%, but that's on the top-line.
Please keep in mind that this is masking a very nice growth in new business sales,
because there were some material maturities in the month of January. The new business
volumes are up in APE terms over 30%. Also, the exact figure, I leave it to our partner
Taiping to disclose, but it's up over 30%. And the margins on the business that has been
written, have actually remained very strong and are in line with what we observed in the
last -- the second half of last year. So, a good focus on the right products.
And then a final point is, as Christophe mentioned, we have made some additional
investments in Asia region. We entered the partnership with Taiping Re and we extended
our participation in the life operations in India. The last one will not materially change the
needle, but Taiping will contribute reasonably to the results for looking forward.
And in terms of outlook, if you take all that together starting from a EUR350 million naked
underlying result of last year, ignoring fair capital gains and COVID positive, we are
actually quite optimistic about the forward-looking contribution of Asia region. Even taking
into account the expected feed impact, which we believe can be compensated by
normalized capital gain realization and a tick-up in the result because of the new
investments.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Filip.

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

So on the free capital generation, I guess you referred to one slide of the presentation,
which is Slide 62, where indeed we give the quarterly figures. And when we read that the
Page 8 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

quarter -- the value for the FCG for Q4 is only EUR68 million. It is indeed below the
guidance the EUR500 million to EUR540 million, I mentioned, divided by four. So there is a
gap with the normal run rate of EUR130 million.
We have investigated this and I can give you the following explanation. First, as you know,
the free capital generation is a result of the two components, change in Own Fund and
change in SCR time, our target of 1.75. And one of the big explain -- one of the main
explanations for this low figure comes from the SCR. And we have over the quarter an
SCR increase of EUR32 million. And if you multiply this by 1.75, you already have good
explanation for the gap.
Where does it come from? This SCR increase, mainly from -- it comes from a kind of
general trend on our asset portfolio to re-risk a little bit our investment. And you will
notice that the weight of the equity is going up. And this is especially visible in AG, which
holds most of the equity portfolio, but this can be observed also in Portugal. But let's say,
the main effect comes from AG. So it is an increase in the equity allocation. So, that's on
SCR, then I will mention but it's a smaller effect. We have an increased counterparty risk
due to the fact that we have wire transfer significant amount to Forsettlement foundation,
indicated this in my pitch.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then you have the generation of Own Funds is slightly weak as well, and that's the
second explanation. And it comes from AG again. And this is due to some changes in cost
assumption and cost allocation in the modal. This is done once a year at the end of the
year, and this was done this year. So, partly comes from the re-risking, partly from some
cost assumption changes.
At the end, I would like to qualify most of this as non-recurrent when you re-risk it's a oneoff effect. So this is not a trend. This is a one-off adjustment. The counterparty risk will
disappear with progressive payment to the beneficiaries. And then on the cost review, it is
again one-off change of the assumption. So at the end of this may be rather long
explanation, I think nothing to be concerned about, and it's the reason why in my pitch, I
confirmed the guidance of EUR500 million to EUR540 million.
Maybe Christophe, on the general account, and there is also an element there from the
counterparty risk on the ForSettlement payments?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

It's worth mentioning. Manu?

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. Thank you Hans. So on the Pillar 1 PIM. So you can see on Slide 64 of the
presentation that our Pillar 1 solvency ratio increased from 179% in Q3 to 199% in Q4,
which is a jump of 20% over one quarter.
And indeed, there are basically two model changes that impact that jump of 20%. So, the
first one is related to the treatment of Interparking. So, and what we, you know that on
Page 9 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

the Pillar 2, we did already what we call a proportional consolidation of Interparking. On
the Pillar 1, we were not allowed to do this by the National Bank in the past. So, we had to
do a full consolidation, which means that you have to take the full SCR while we only own
50%, 51% of the company. So we have 51% of the free surplus, but we have 100% of the
SCR.
We review the Solvency II regulation in the last months of 2020. And we were convinced
that there is an opening to also apply proportional consolidation in Pillar 1. We entered into
a discussion with our external auditor and then with National Bank and at the end, the both
parties gave their approval to align Pillar 2 and Pillar 1, which means that we could also
apply a proportional consolidation of Interparking under Pillar 1. That has a positive impact
of something like 7% on our Pillar 1 ratio. So that is only at group level. So, that does not
impact the operating company, it's only an impact at group level.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other one is related to the way that we model profit sharing and mainly at AG
Insurance. That one was even at the request of the National Bank of Belgium that we had
to review it. So we -- and the way that we have to look at it is but Solvency II, you know
that on the Solvency II, you have restricted contract boundaries, which is a sort of runoff
portfolio, while in reality, but we know that we have a much more ongoing concern
portfolio, where we know that contracts are renewed with renewal rate of 90% of hire,
which means that you have to properly model and reflect your profit sharing and your
margin in another way than if you are in a runoff portfolio.
So, that was at the request of the National Bank. We did this and that model change has
an impact of 10% at group level. So the two together at group level, we have a 10% on
the profit sharing and we have a 7% on the Interparking treatment, which account then for
something like 17% at group level improvement.
So you can imagine that we are extremely pleased by this, approved also by the
regulator. And that's as you know, that we manage and focus on Pillar 2 that allow us to
even more focus on Pillar 2 to manage the business moving forward.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Next question from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi everybody. Good morning. A couple of questions on AvivaSa and then a question on
reserve releases, if that's okay.
So on AvivaSa, could you talk a little bit about the merging because both Aksigorta and
AvivaSa are sort of partnerships with Sabanci Group. And clearly, there's bancassurance

Page 10 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

opportunities. Can you talk about what you're going to do to put those together to make
it a more efficient business.

FINAL

And the second question is, AvivaSa is kind of mainly what has anyway been mainly a push
on the pensions market in Turkey. Do you continue to focus on that? Or do you think
actually the life protection size, I think, that you will try to grow the most.
And the third question is on reserve releases. So more in the UK, you continue to have
this kind of excess reserve release due to the prudential risk margin in the UK. I was kind
of wondering, where you are in that journey? And when do you think it's going to
normalize and to what level? Thank you very much.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, Farooq. I'll take to the first two on AvivaSa. I'll pass one to Antonio for
the UK. First of all, you're right. We have two entities now in Turkey, AKSigorta on the NonLife side and AvivaSa on the Life side. With comparable shareholding, also both
companies are listed. And it is also the intention to keep the companies listed at least for
the time being, and it is also the plan of Sabanci. We also cannot legally merge them
because we cannot create a composite license in the Turkish market.
But that being said, of course, we will look at potential synergies operations wise, but also
commercial. I think AvivaSa brings us a solid agency force into our partnership with
Sabanci. And of course, both companies do work with Akbank. And so we can, I think,
further develop the complete bancassurance relationship, life and Non-Life for instance,
the way we know it in Belgium as well. So indeed, we are looking for synergies, but no
merger.
On your second question, well, actually we would like to further develop all the markets
they are. We are quite pleased, actually, with the quality of the products, with the asset
liability management and the way they approach the market. So, we would like to develop
all products, also the pension products, which is off-balance sheet products and on the life
protection side, specifically, we see room for the partnership with Akbank. The current
penetration ratio on MRTA is relatively low in the bank and there is definitely upside
potential to be created. And of course, bancassurance's expertise is something that
Ageas can bring to the table in this partnership.
And I'll give it to Antonio for the question on the UK.

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe just a follow-up comment just on what Hans was saying for Turkey, and good
morning to you all. Our relations with Sabanci Group and AKsigorta has always been
extremely fluid. Actually, also the person at Sabanci responsible for AKsigorta. He is also
the Chairman of the Board of AvivaSa. So I think collaboration will certainly happen along
the lines that Hans was mentioning.

Page 11 of 29



FINAL

Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Coming back to the UK and the reserve releases and whether that would stabilize or not,
well, a first comment on the additional risk margin. So we had in Q4, a release of that
margin in a particular business line, I discussed that at one point in time also with you,
which is related to the rental guarantee business, where we thought that what might be
indirectly exposed through the court ruling related to COVID and lockdowns, et cetera. So
that proves to be less of an issue. So there was a slight release on that business. But on
the other hand, we did increase in Q4 this additional risk margin for Motor and related to
claims inflation that we see and we expect actually to edge up. So we actually increased
our prudency levels in that area.
And then on the releases, yes, we do have very sizable releases from previous years. As
we always have shown, you remember that, in particular, for 2019 we had much higher
large loss claims being set up. It proves to be that indeed, there was healthy level of
prudency in those reserves and actually see that gradually winding down. But
fundamentally, we will not really change the approach. So, you will always see relatively
high initial case reserves and as the claims are being settled, we see a positive release.
So I would not expect that trend to basically change.
If you look back a couple of years, you will see a kind of a break in the trend, but that was
more related to the impact that the old saga had on this pattern. But if you look through
that, our approach is a basically healthy. Our prudency level is very healthy. We have
increased it in Q4. We have a strong balance sheet to look forward to next year for the
UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Can I just quickly return. I mean, I think in the past you said, look, you'll get good reserve
releases because of all of these points that you make, but it's probably going to be closer
to around 4 points a year. Is that a good way to think about it?

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

I think if you look back, it would be slightly -- it has been slightly higher than 4%. I would say
it's more like the 6% to 7% range. It depends on, if the book increases or not. So it's
difficult to give a number that is cast in stone, but it is at least 4%.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay, that's very kind. Thank you so much.

Operator
Thank you. Next question from Farquhar Murray from Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. Just a couple of questions from me. Just starting on the NonLife pricing side, could I just ask how pricing is developing across the geographies you've

Page 12 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

got? In particular, are you seeing any kind of competitive pass through of frequency
benefits, given we've got a slightly more prolonged lockdown now?
And then secondly, on the acquisition of AvivaSa in Turkey, could I just ask whether Sabanci
had any reserve rights with regards to who could buy that business? And perhaps could
you add some details around the shareholder agreement signed in January, in order to
form a basis for the negotiation with Aviva? And in particular, why does Sabanci get three
appointments on the Board versus Ageas'2? [ph] And then finally, turning just to capital,
as you know, I'm good actually. Just two questions from me. Thanks.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Yes. The question on Non-Life pricing. It's mainly in the European market. So I'll pass that
to Antonio in a minute.

Bloomberg Transcript

On your question on AvivaSa, as indeed you're right, Sabanci was already present in the
partnership and yes, they did have something to say about the options that Aviva had for
the sale. We're not going to comment more on this. But indeed they did have some
influence and it's also Sabanci, who approached us to see, whether we were willing, or
whether we were willing to expand our partnership in the Turkish market, which I think for
me I think is also a very important vote of confidence on the way, we are developing the
business in Turkey.
Maybe one element important here to mention from shareholders' point of view that, we
also have an agreement that this will be solid dividend paying entities, we will have in the
Turkish market, both for AKSigorta and AvivaSa, we will have 50%, minimally 50% payout
ratio, which I think is important also for Ageas. And then the Board representation, I think,
it's fairly proportional. If you look at the stakes. So it is two against three, Sabanci will
control and consolidate this entity. So I think it is quite natural to have this representation in
the Board.
I'll give it to Antonio to run through the Non-Life one.

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Hans. I'll go there very briefly. So, there is obviously a downward trend in
prices, talking particularly about Motor. I guess that is what you're referring to. So, the UK,
you're familiar with that. I think Q4 was depending on which source you use either the
Confused.com index or the ABI indexes, you had a couple of percent off. I think that is to a
large extent, due to the lockdown effects.
We also see something like that in Belgium, stable, slightly decreasing. And I would say
that in Portugal you have the same trend. So, it's not dramatic. In the sense that you have
like 5%, 10% reductions from it. But indeed there is a slightly downward pressure, which is
reflecting the impact of the lockdown. If the impact of the lockdowns will diminish, and
we'll start all driving again, we'll pick up again with normal inflation related price increases
going forward. So for me, it's a temporary reduction reflecting that you can expect still in
the first part of '21 lower claims frequency.
Page 13 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. Next question from Fulin Liang from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Thanks. I have three, hopefully, very quick questions. So the first
one is on the China remittance. If I got what Christophe just said, So the impairment
doesn't change the local accounting, but presumably the interest rate drag will, So what's
the outlook? So, we saw that the China remitted a EUR100 million in 2020. So, what's the
outlook for the remittance going? It's going to be flat, it's going to be higher? Just a
sense. I appreciate that you probably can't give a number.
And then secondly is on the Group guidance that, given that if you're confidence on what
was happening in Asia, et cetera, et cetera, would you actually upgrade your guidance for
2021, the second one.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the last one also, if we look at the unit-linked margin, apparently is the CE, which is
dragging the margin in the unit-linked? Is there any measures being taken there to
improve the margin? Thank you.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. What Christophe meant here is that the upstreaming from China is based on the
local accounting results. And as you remember, in the third quarter, we have taken some
impairment based on the IFRS adjustment. It was linked to the investments in three to four
core Chinese banks. So, the only thing we can give you now as guidance is that, that will
most likely not drive the dividend upstreaming because those impairments have not been
taken in local accounting. But what we can expect from -- on China, I think, it is too early to
shine some light on this one.
I don't know Filip; you want to add something?

A - Filip Coremans

{BIO 17614100 <GO>}

Yes, I can, obviously, not preempt the decision of the Board of China Taiping regarding
this and also the guidance coming from Central Government on that. But last year,
Taiping, indeed, at a payout ratio close to 30%. Their result, the impairments we took that
are not reflected, there are more differences. But the major bulk is around EUR 125
million, let's say, in euro terms, that their results will not be impacted by impairment. So,
that gives you some guidance, gut we will have to wait the outcome of the closing of the
books in China and their Board meeting on dividend proposals, obviously, that as
guidance, I think that is sufficient.

Page 14 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

And about -- let me recapitulate on your question on guidance looking forward on Asia. I
tried actually to do that in my earlier intervention, but starting again from an underlying
naked result for the full year of 2020, which I referred to at EUR370 million, taking out the
effects, negative effect of bear, which was EUR116 million and the lack of capital gains
there, but I took out also the capital gains. So without capital gains without feeder impact,
we were at EUR 370 million.
And then I said there's three main components will drive this forward or four, if you want.
One is what will be the effect of valuation interest rates in the year to come. And there, in
that we expect that impact to be at the level of around 2/3 of what we saw this year.
Because the valuation interest rate at the end of the year was 3.29%. It will come further
down to around 3.15%, if rates stay where they are and by comparison.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, I mentioned the fact that the unrealized capital gain buffers in Asia have not
been tapped into last year but have been restoring the Asian markets. And certainly, the
Chinese equity market did rather well, where we took impairments, meaning that our IFRS
unrealized capital gain position has more than restored to levels that we saw at the
beginning of last year, and I mentioned there, IFRS, our share, EUR 350 million unrealized
capital gains on that book, which means that there is the potential to have a normalized
realization of cap gains. So what you see in a normal average year in Asia region, which
would definitely compensate for the bear impact.
And thirdly, I refer to what Christophe also referred to the additional investments that we
made in Taiping Re and in India. And then in Taiping Re, this will add to the P&L India that is
less material. Overall, that will give a positive uptick. And then I refer to an additional
positive impact of EUR20 million COVID we had, which is tapering away because if you
look at the combined ratios, in Asia, they are more or less back over the last quarter to
where they were. So, that puts, I think, if you add that all up and under bound on our
guidance, which is quite at the higher end of where we have been talking before.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Maybe one additional comment on the dividend, and coming from China, and it is more is
a qualitative comment, not a quantitative comment. The dividend paid by Taiping Life is a
key element of the capital management of the Taiping group. It is their main entity. And I
like -- I always like to make the parallel with AG and Ageas.
In Ageas, the payment of the dividend of AG is a key component and we have a 25%
third-party shareholder, which takes each share. We are exactly in the same situation in
China. We take 25% of the dividend, which is a key element of the group. So without
giving you some commitment. I am sure that the Taiping Group Management will make all
efforts to upstream a very decent dividend. So we are well aligned on this. Thank you.

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

I can conclude for you on the overall guidance. So as for now, and the year has just
started, we stick to our range, the same range as we had last year. That means EUR850
million to EUR950 million, but a bit higher in that range. Your reference base is EUR870

Page 15 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

million for 2020. We raised that to EUR900 million. That brings us also perfectly in line with
our earnings per share CAGR commitment that we have given in Connect21. Of course,
we will monitor this on a quarterly basis and we will come back on this most likely at the
end of the first quarter.
Let's not forget that COVID is not completely behind us. And we still have some
uncertainties at play also in Europe. One element in there is, what are the, I would say the
positive impact from COVID on Non-Life specifically in Europe. We have seen in the fourth
quarter that the positive elements in Motor are less than we have seen them in a full
lockdown in the second quarter. So it remains to be seen how much of this effect and will
play into '21 and for how long will it be three months? Or will it be till summer? Or will it be
even longer?
Second, I think Filip already gave some comments, interest rate movements, specifically I
think in China where you have then the impact on the fee. And then the last one is on
capital gains, but there I can only repeat, which I think, as such, is a success that we were
able to close the year with the same capacity potentially in unrealized capital gains, as we
have started the year. So I would say I'm less concerned to see a similar capital gains
impact in '21, than we have seen in '20, but all this remains to be confirmed once we have
a better view on how we will get out of this COVID crisis throughout 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Now I'll take the question that was very specific on the unit-linked margin for Continental
Europe. It has actually been edging slightly up. And the main drivers there the Portuguese
business. And it's edging up because of the book changes as time goes by in
composition, and the book of, say, the older business that was a bit more problematic in
terms of margin is actually fading out. And we are starting to sell. We are actively selling
quite a lot of more pension-related products with a healthier margin. So, you see unitlinked margin for Continental Europe is actually edging up.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question from Colm Kelly from UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Thanks a lot. Two questions for me. One on the operating free capital generation. I think
for the year it's coming in at 14 points of solvency, which is consistent of what it was last
year, and a bit lower than it used to be. It used to be that 16, 17 points.
So based on the guidance, this isn't going to increase, clearly it covers the dividend. But
based on the normal activity of the company, which includes buybacks and/or M&A activity,
it suggests the free capital generation won't necessarily cover all of these on an
underlying basis. So I mean speaking with your peers this dominates the debate on
Page 16 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

analyst Q&A, because this is deemed to be the best guidance for capital return. Is this
important to your capital management or deployment strategy? And if not, why not?

FINAL

And then also you talk about asset re-risking. Are there other management actions that
you're considering to take around solvency going forward?
Then lastly just on the UK, you mentioned the Motor claims review around claims inflation
for prudence. Can you just give a little bit more detail on exactly why you've taken that
action? Thank you.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So on the free capital generation. First, I would like to remind you that the position, the
policy is not to cover dividend plus share buyback. What was indicated is that the free
capital generation should cover the dividend payment and there is always a surplus and
risk. And we can observe that it partly "finance" the share buyback. But the share buyback
was at start more meant to reduce the surplus capital and the surplus cash that we have.
But having said that, I am sure it will not be seen as a very satisfactory answer. But let me
explain the free capital generation that we discuss here as I said, is based on the Solvency
II scope. We take the full amount. We deduct the dividend and we end up with a Solvency
II scope. And here we are on more or less the European part of the group, where the
growth is not tremendous, I would say. But please take into consideration the growing
incoming dividend coming from Asia and we are on a rising trend. So here, I think it will
improve over time. It is we have not yet put in place the full-fledged free capital
generation framework in Asia. But it is an objective that we have to align Asia with Europe,
so that we have the full-fledged free capital generation framework, and it is where I think
we will see most of the growth coming from Asia.
So, at this stage, we are obliged to take the most prudent approach, which is to only
recognize the dividend, but there -- you will accept that the dividend is increasing. So
conclusion through, but there is not an increase in the guidance, but it is on the -- not
much part of the Group.
And on the Asian part, consider the increased dividend inflow and in the near future, my
objective is to implement the free capital generation in Asia. Today, we have some hints,
but with one quarter delay, which makes it not very convenient to report to you. But after
a while my short term objective is to align Asia. And in that case, you will see more
favorable figures. And indeed, you could expect growing guidance on the consolidated
free capital generation of the group.
But we do cover, I think, for 2020, yes, we do cover with free capital generation. 641
compared to EUR485 million for the dividend and potentially a share buyback to be
decided later in the year. I think the numbers match, and we do have adequate free
capital generation over 2020 to support this.
I think Antonio, U.K. claims?
Page 17 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Yes. Very specific about the claims inflation and why we think that is -- that could be on the
right. I think that was the question. Well, it's basically important inflation that is our view, so
general CPI kind of inflation in the UK that we expect going forward. And actually, the way
we do that, we just have to increase our prudency level, so our confidence into full level.
So there's just more prudency in the reserves backed by arguments that inflation is, let's
put it, it's more uncertain. If the pound continues to rise, it might be less. If the pound
diminish in value because a lot of these spare parts are imported, inflation could be
higher. So it's more related to uncertainty about inflation expectations.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question from William Hawkins from KWB. Sorry, please go ahead.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It was right first time KBW. Hello gentlemen. I thank you for the detailed guidance you've
given already, and I don't need you to repeat that. Thank you.
I do just want to check a couple of points, so please. Hans, when you were normalizing the
2020 results, you added back the FRESH and you added back the RPN(I). But you didn't
add back the COVID impact of EUR85 million. And the way I see it, your baseline is more
like in the mid EUR900 million rather than the EUR870 million that you spoke about for
that reason. I understand the future is uncertain, but I don't really understand why you
ignored that in your normalization for the past. So if you could help me understand that
because obviously it's relevant for the baseline.
And then secondly, please on Asia. Again Filip, thank you, you've been really helpful in the
detail, and I don't need you to repeat that. But I had a couple of questions, please, to help
my understanding. You were very clear about the VIR impact in 2021. Assume interest
rates don't change from here, does that impact then become zero in 2022? Or does it
continue to have an impact? Again, I'm not sure, are we already starting to average up,
given that yields have bounced, or are we taking this impact in '21 and then there's a zero.
And also in Asia, I'm not sure if I'm understanding how the accounting looks. But is there a
good chance that the impact of realized gains for Ageas is now materially skewed to the
upside relative to Taiping's behavior because if you've already taken the impairments that
they haven't, if those impairments come through at some point, then Taiping will be
realizing gains, not just on a normal basis, but on an additional basis. So it seems to me, if
I understand the accounting rights, that at some point, Ageas could be benefiting from a
significantly higher level of realized gains. Point being not just that there's upside in your
numbers, but kind of skewed to the upside materially?

Page 18 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

And then lastly please, very simple question, Manu. I'm sorry, when you gave the helpful
detail about the PIM, you talked about contract boundaries changing in Belgium. And I
wasn't clear, if you were talking about life or Non-Life or both. So if you would mind just
clarifying the contract boundaries, what that's applied to? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Hey, let me take your first question. You are right. If we would add up the EUR85 million
that we see if COVID impact the EUR85 million you would arrive at EUR955 million. That
would be at the high end, even above the guidance we are giving today. I can only repeat
that we still have that uncertainty and we will not see -- we are -- we do not know what we
will still, I think, enjoy or suffer from under the COVID impact. And I think the most
important part is here that the evolution of the interest rates.
We see the positive elements in Non-Life already reducing in the fourth quarter. They are
roughly half of what they were in the second quarter, where most of our countries were
with some kind of a complete lockdown. And then on the opposite side, you have the
effect of interest rates. And so we hope that we can give you a little bit more guidance at
the end of the first quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

I agree with you that last few days, we have seen the interest rate jumping around a little
bit in the first place in the positive direction. But too early to confirm that, that is I think
something that will stay and continue. So, please bear with us, and I think we can give you
a better estimate by the end of the first quarter.

A - Filip Coremans

{BIO 17614100 <GO>}

Yes, William, thanks for your additional clarification questions. Indeed, it's true. When we
look at the curve effects of this in 2021. They will be higher in the beginning of the year,
because if you look three years back, you will see that at one point than the Chinese 10year go with it, 4% ranges and these are disappearing. So, the effect will be more skewed
towards the first half of the year and will taper off by the end of the year. And then the
year after 2021, it would be mostly flattish. But of course, that depends on the movement.
That so, it's something that every quarter we monitor and we will keep you up-to-date on.
But it's true that 2022, it should become kind of zero-ish.
Then on the realization of capital gains, yes, of course, since we have impaired and the
market rebounded, and we did not realize gains. And Taiping also did not have a lot of
turnaround in their books. We have a positive gap with what they have in terms of
unrealized capital gains. And indeed, if they ever have to impair, we have already
impaired. We lead that cycle.
Now just to give you a feel, because we -- the impairments were on these bank shares,
and they've been very transparent about it. It was the positions they took in ICBC,
Agricultural Bank of China, and CCB, yes, commercial, and these three names actually.
Since we impair them, these stocks have recovered to almost 20% to 25% and for some
even 28%. They may not be 100% that they are acquisition costs yet, but we will see. But
indeed, if there were to be trades in these stocks, which is unlikely, but if there would be

Page 19 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

impairment risk to be taken by our partner, and they would compensate that, we would
definitely benefit from it without having the burden of an impairment. So you're right,
there is an extra buffer in our case, which could lead to substantially higher results for
Ageas than in local costs.

FINAL

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Another element. Because we were already faced with this kind of problem, it was two
years ago. And then we counted on the high turnover in the portfolio to "get the money
back" and to realize as capital gain what was impaired. This is not really the case for this
impairment, because they are concentrated on long-term holding equities. They have this
nice solvency treatment in case of long-term equity. So these equities are not meant to
be sold in the near future. So unfortunately, we cannot count on getting back the
impairment through realized capital gain. That's something we should mention I think.

A - Emmanuel Van Grimbergen

{BIO 18010465 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Then Will, I clarify, probably, I was not clear enough on the contract boundary. So
there is no change in the contract boundary at AG Insurance. But on the Solvency II, you
have to model certain type of product with what we call a restricted contract boundary. So
you cannot assume that they will be renewed in the future. While we know that in the
reality, 90% or even more of those contracts will be renewed and that you have a sort of
ongoing concern situation instead of one year premium and then more run-off of the
portfolio.
So there is no change in the way that we look at contract boundary on the solvency II. But
the National Bank of Belgium asked us to model profit sharing and financial margin that
we can get based -- not based on the runoff portfolio, but based on an ongoing concern
business, which is -- which reflects much more reality. And when we do that --

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}

Sorry Emmanuel, just to be clear, is this Life or Non-Life? Because when you say profitsharing, I think, of Life, but when you say.

A - Emmanuel Van Grimbergen

{BIO 18010465 <GO>}

It's life. It is life. Yes, it is life.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Emmanuel Van Grimbergen

{BIO 18010465 <GO>}

Yes, it is life. And then -- and when we do this, then we have the positive impact of 10% at
group level.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thank you.
Page 20 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Operator
Thank you. Next question from Jason Kalamboussis from KBC Securities. Please, go
ahead.

FINAL

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}

Yes, good morning gentlemen. I had a couple of questions. The first one is what is the
diversification benefit in percentage terms at group level from your UK operations? If you
could share that would us, that'd be great.
The second is the UK, EUR11 million for Q4. Could you give us an idea of what you think is
the underlying number there? And how should we view the EUR60 million, that means,
which is your target. I know that you may come with the new targets in June. But as we
stand, do you find that this currently reflects your operations? Or at the end of the day,
we should be still thinking about the previous target of the EUR80 million and the EUR60
million is somewhere a temporary target, given what has happened in the UK?
And on Asia, you used to have, in general, I think, capital gains average over the years of
about EUR20 million. So, from what I understood that now we should be looking probably
at about EUR30 million over the next years, if you could confirm that would be great.
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

So, the diversification benefit of the UK, we don't have the exact calculation, but I'll give
you an educated estimate. So, it's all Non-Life, as you all know. And if I use as a proxy,
what the diversification benefit would be in the Non-Life book of AG. It's something that
we do quantify. So the diversification benefit of the Non-Life book within the AG book, this
is a fair enough proxy. It is in the 30% to 35% range. So a reduction of your SCR was 30%,
35%. I hope that's helpful.
Sorry. On the underlying for the UK, bear in mind that the contribution of the UK business
to the result of the group, including the 40% quota share and loss portfolio transfer that
we did for 2020, it's close to EUR100 million. Obviously there is a part of that related to
the COVID benefit. So you could say that for this year, 2020, we are above this target
level.
Looking forward, I think '21 will be, again, a bump year in the UK. COVID might be a
positive. We have the FCA pricing review, et cetera. But looking beyond just '21 we still
stick to a target that's in line with the past. But again bear in mind that we have sold or will
be closing the sale of the Tesco underwriting business. So you should deduct that from
the target level that we gave you in the past. And so for today, I think the new target will
be in the 60%, 65% -- EUR60 million, EUR65 million net profit for the UK, including the
results that we generate at the reinassurance account of the quota share LPT, which I
remember you, it's 40% of the book.

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}
Page 21 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. Next question--

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Sorry. There is a second part of the question was about level of normalized capital gains in
Asia. I don't think we have ever mentioned there EUR20 million or EUR30 million, as far as
I'm aware. But to give you a feel, the overall Ageas share in the assets under
management in Asia region. Let's say, the component on equity in there is about between
EUR4 billion and EUR4.5 billion.
If you would have 1% extra return on the equity book would be already around EUR45
million. So, -- but I'm not going to go making a prediction on that. It is extremely volatile,
but you can expect, yes, okay 1% to 2% realization of capital gains. It would not be
unreasonable over a longer term. But with the caveat, that it's extremely volatile from
year to year, obviously. But the overall equity exposure in the our share Asian book is
around EUR4.5 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}

Thank you. Very useful. If I may have just a quick follow-up on Asia, since which I forgot is in
Q4, I mean, if you do the underlying numbers, so taking out the realized gains, underlying
impact. You seem to be going down every, if we look at it year-on-year, it's actually down.
Do you find that there is any reason because I don't -- I just don't understand this year-onyear decrease over the last three years, specifically on the fourth quarter?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

If I'm honest, because I did that exercise obviously, it's slightly up actually underlying
because last year just taking the top-line of this year and 2019, we had a Life result of
EUR72 million, this year EUR3 million. The capital gains in there were EUR33 million, this
year EUR14 million. The VIR impact last year plus 19% this year, 31%. So that's rather flat.
And on the Non-Life side 0 to 9. There's hardly any capital gain impact, it would have
been 5 to 9. So largely flat, I would say, slightly up. But indeed this year, I can tell you and
would have to be a bit patient there to see the effects coming in our Q1 announcements.
A lot of effort went in China to preparation for the New Year campaign. And that's not
only for Taiping, it's also observed throughout the market,. Many of the companies were
focusing on a fresh good start of the year, stopped selling quite early and put the sales
force really for bulk kickoff of the new year. Which maybe have put a little bit more
downward pressure in the last quarter than in other years. But in general, we see it being
relatively flat, slightly up.

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Page 22 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

And Jason, look at the full year Jason, it's full year is -- if you take out the effect of
CARGEAS and VIRs only Life, without COVID impact Non-Life, it's EUR71 million or 27% up.
So over the year, we think it's underlying significant improvement.

FINAL

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much for that. And by the way, the capital gains, do we need to tax
them much?

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

In all fairness, I do not know exactly, but that depends country to country. In certain
countries, they will be definitely part of taxable income. In most countries, that's subject to
local tax, income tax.

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

In Belgium, it's no.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

But in Belgium, it's no but for Asia it's assumed there are mostly, and they would be taxed
as income.

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Many thanks.

Operator
Thank you. Next question from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, and good morning, everyone. Just a couple of questions. I mean, so first
of all, I think you have given one number in past that, you aim to get EUR150 million of
capital gain, overall, in a given year. Is that number correct? And if I look at that, basically,
that means you have done EUR110 million this year. Next year, if you do EUR150 million that
means itself like from EUR870 million, you easily go to EUR910 million just by doing that
EUR40 million higher capital gains. So, would you kind of suggest that the EUR900 million
guidance you are giving at the moment is on a very conservative note, just because we
are in the middle of COVID even now? Or would you say no, that's a bit more realistic like
assuming COVID goes away like in next two three months. So, how do we categorize
that?
Second question would be about, say, M&A. I mean, you have done few bolt-on M&As
now. So like I think India, you've done Taiping Re, then you've done AvivaSa. How do we
think about M&A capacity going forward? Are you just looking to bolt-ons now? Or, are
you still thinking about one reasonable sized M&A, like, I think we were discussing about
Spain last year. So, are we still on that at the moment?
Page 23 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

And then just lastly is on the dividend, basically, you did a flat dividend this year, let's say,
it's a COVID year, so not an issue. How do we think about dividend going forward? I
mean, do you still stick with that north of 50% payout ratio? Or is there anything more that
can be done on that?

FINAL

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay, thank you, Ashik. Well, we don't give any guidance specifically on cap gains,
because this is every year quite a volatile number. Let's not forget that a significant part of
cap gains is also coming from real estate transactions, which are most of the time a few
sizable transactions, which is I think hard to fix beforehand. But again the question came
already is there not upside potential for the guidance, indeed, I think there is, but we want
to be more certain about the COVID impact specifically on financial markets, interest
rates and capital gains potential before committing to that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that, I think, we will come back to you at the end of the first quarter. M&A capacity,
where we have a comfortable EUR1.2 billion position of cash, we still have roughly EUR400
million to EUR 500 million potential for debt issuance. So, if we limit to debt, I think we can
say that we have an available capacity of EUR2 billion except, of course, if you would go
and look for other solutions like raising equity. So that means that our M&A policy for this
year has not changed in market consolidation, which is the three cases that you have seen
in the last three M&A transactions. There is a market today for this type of M&A because
we see quite some important international groups.
We refocusing on their core markets. And sometimes, like in Turkey, that gives us an
opportunity to do some in-market consolidation. We do not exclude a sizeable M&A.
Remember that we have, still that concept of, can we build a fourth home market, which
we have communicated in Connect21. So for this year, M&A strategy is not changing. And
first week of June, we will come with our new revised strategy going forward. And of
course, we will also look again at our M&A policy in this respect and come back to you at
the beginning of June for the years '22 to '24.
And then, dividend, going forward, actually, same response. The Connect21
commitments, which means 50% payout ratio and a potential share buyback, if no
material M&A, still stands as our commitment for this year. And also, that one, we will
come back to you in an update in the first week of June.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

But just one thing on this like this, AvivaSa will not be counted as any material M&A. Is that
a fair comment?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Yes, we do not judge the acquisition in Turkey. As material to cancel a potential share
buyback this year. That's right.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Page 24 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Okay. That's very good. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. Next question from Benoit Petrarque from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go
ahead.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes, good morning, gentleman. Two questions on my side. So the first one is just to come
back on the EUR900 million guidance. If you could help me to understand how much cap
gains is included in this guidance, just for me to avoid asking a question again in the
coming quarters. I mean, cap gains should not be really relevant at the end of the day,
and that can move up and down. So it will be useful to get the clean figure, ex cap gains
actually.
And then maybe, could you help me to understand how much COVID benefit you have
included in the EUR900 million, if you've not included at all benefits there? And then the
second one is on the tax on the security accounts in Belgium, which could be
implemented it might impact branch 23 products. So I just wanted to get your view on
what your expectations, whether that will be voted by the parliament or you think it will be
not an issue for branch 23 policyholders? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

First question, if I may, I'm a bit surprised by your focus on cap gains in the guidance.
Because for me 2020 has exactly proven that the underlying performance of Ageas is
well diversified and very strong and that we are actually less dependent in the overall
result on cap gains, successful years between versus less successful years.
If I look at the underlying performance before cap gains, we had EUR407 million in 2019
and we have EUR579 million in 2020. So, in that sense, I think, the guidance will not be
overly influenced by the expectation on the capital gains. For last year for 2020, we had a
budget of EUR250 million initially foreseen, okay? We come out lower in the capital gains.
But as you can see, it has not really impacted materially our overall performance. So,
please don't judge the annual performance of Ageas too much on the realization of
(Technical Difficulty).

Operator
Okay. Next question.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Sorry, the fortune tax was meant as a fortune tax. But the way it is structured now, that
means that all on Branch 23 policyholders might be affected. And so the insurance
federation is still in discussion, I think, with the ministry and is also considering potential
legal action, because this was not the initial intention on the fortune tax.

Page 25 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

As of now, I don't think we see any material impact on the Branch 23. On the contrary, the
appetite for Branch 23 compared to guaranteed since the second quarter last year has
only risen. So at this moment, I think the impact is fairly limited, but we are waiting for the
final legislation.

FINAL

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes, good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my question. And I'm sorry to come
back on guidance again. I'll be more specific on Asia. I mean if I listen to your building
blocks, you start with EUR 370 million. If I listen to your narrative around capital gains. I
guess, it's a better level to look at 2019, which is basically EUR50 million ahead, roughly, of
the headwind from the China 10 years. So that would add EUR50 million. They have
Taiping Re coming in at EUR25 million. And then you'll have some business momentum,
which should also support further growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, if I do this math, I guess the implied guidance for Asia should be around EUR470
million already for 2021. So my first question is, is this math correct? Or am I missing
something?
Second to that, if you look at 2022, I think, in fact the rate environment will be a bit of a
supporting factor in fact. So that EUR75 million of headwind that you have in 2021 will
actually go away next year and probably be a small positive, which should support further
growth besides the business momentum you have. So I mean, I get that you're giving an
optimistic message on Asia. I'm just hoping that these numbers basically make this fit in
line with how you were seeing things. And then I guess I can make my own conclusions
about how conservative your group guidance is on the back of that.
Then secondly, your previous year claims ratio in Q4 was less than 2 points of tailwind for
the combined. Your guidance is 6% to 7% point. I'm just wondering, we talked about risk
margin affects you also talked about interest rate assumption in Motor. I was just
wondering, did we cover everything that has affected that previous year claims ratio
specifically in Q4? Or is there some other prudency you've taken in the quarter?
And lastly, any commentary around the potential of Ageas coming up for sale in Belgium
would be helpful. Thank you.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Yes, I'm almost asked to put my budget here on the table, but I appreciate the focus on
that because it is indeed a little bit blurred through the past year because of VIR and

Page 26 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

FINAL

indeed, impairment. But let me do it again, but with here and there caveat. The underlying
where we started from, in my explain, is EUR370 million. That is ignoring any impact of
valuation interest rates and any capital gains last year.
I indicated that there is a positive impact of COVID also in the Non-Life operations. In Asia,
which is undeniably there, anywhere between EUR10 million and EUR20 million. So please
deduct it and I'm starting from a base, which is EUR350 million, which would have been at
the higher end of our guidance anyway. And looking forward, I mentioned that we do
expect a VIR impact at the level of around 2/3, what we have seen this year. Also, that
figure is volatile, because it's actually a curve effect. It's not a one rate. But anyway, it gives
a guidance. We are -- an impact there that we see, EUR70 million, EUR80 million, if you
would do just the rule of three. It would be a negative.
Then I said, indeed, we are quite comfortable that we see that being compensated, plus
or minus, give or take because it's volatile by potential capital gains on our book in Asia,
which brings me back to the EUR350 million instead, and we did additional investments,
and we have normal growth. So that's why I said that the EUR350 million, which is a top of
our guidance range, would be at the bottom of where we are looking at. And from there
upward, with the return on our new investments indeed, and the normal growth in the
region. But I don't want to go more specific than that. I think this is already quite specific.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

A bit more light on the previous year runoff, which is indeed for Q4 specifically lower than
you would expect. If you look at where that is happening, that's basically the Belgium
operations. And that is linked to the reserve strengthening that has been done in Q4 and
particularly related to liability claims where we see and expect a gradual increase of the
amount being granted by judges related to mainly liability claims. So, that is the main
source of the lower previous year releases in Q4.
You might also have had the effect here that is just simply less activity in closing down
claims and therefore, realizing previous year's releases, given the lockdown. You might
have a slight impact of that, too, which would be just a postponement of that release into
the next year. It's a combination of strengthening the balance sheet in liability claims in
Belgium and a slowdown in the level that claims are being closed.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

This is within the bodily injury. So similar to Ogden and the U.K. and what we have seen in
the Netherlands last year?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

It has a smell of Ogden, yes.

Page 27 of 29



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

FINAL

But at a much, much lower level obviously, but it is linked to both inflation and lower
interest rates that fit into these core judgments.

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Okay. On your third question regarding ATLs. I think we have always been clear and
transparent that ATLs would fit in our M&A strategy and would be an interesting
opportunity for in market consolidation. Where we are already leading us, specifically, the
position of ATLs in the public sector. But I think you together with me, have read in the
press that at this moment, there is no concrete file.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks guys.

Operator
Thank you. That was the last question. I give you the floor for your conclusion.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions. And to end this call, let me
summarize the main conclusions. In a highly challenging year, we recorded a solid result,
thanks to a strong underwriting performance, both in Life and Non-Life, which mitigated
the lower contribution from capital gains.
Our balance sheet has been restored to its pre-COVID level and we can rely almost solid
solvency and cash position. Given this performance, the Board will propose a dividend in
line with last year all time high of EUR2.65. And lastly, we are confident in our ability to
achieve a 2021 group net profit around EUR900 million in the middle of our target range
of EUR850 million to EUR950 million.
And with this, I would like to bring this call to an end. Don't hesitate to contact our
Investors Relations team, should you have any outstanding questions. Thanks again for
your time, and I would like to wish you a very nice day.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you all for your
participation. Thank you. You may now disconnect your lines.

Page 28 of 29



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-02-24

Page 29 of 29

