Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Q2 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David McElroy, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, General Insurance
Kevin Hogan, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Life and Retirement
Mark Lyons , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Peter Zaffino, President & Chief Executive Officer
Quentin McMillan, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Elyse Greenspan
Erik Bass
Meyer Shields
Phil Stefano
Tracy Benguigui

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good day, and welcome to AIG's Second Quarter, 2021 Financial
Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like
to turn the conference over to Quentin McMillan. Please go ahead.

Quentin McMillan

{BIO 20877504 <GO>}

Thank you, Nora. Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements including
comments relating to company performance, strategic priorities, including AIG's pursue of
separation of its life and retirement business, business mix, and market conditions, and
the effects of COVID-19 on AIG.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and are based on
management's current expectations. Actual performance and events may differ materially.
Factors that could cause results to differ include the factors described in our first quarter
2021 report on Form 10-Q, our 2020 annual report of Form 10-K and our other recent
filings made with the SEC.
AIG is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation to update any
forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or
otherwise. Additionally, some remarks may refer to non-GAAP financial measures. The
reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP figures is included in our
Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

earnings release, financial supplement, and earnings presentation, all of which are
available on our website at www.aig.com.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to Peter Zaffino, President and CEO of AIG.

FINAL

Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Good morning, and thank you for joining us. We have a lot of topics to cover this morning,
as we made significant progress on many initiatives over the last 90 days. I will start
today's remarks with an overview of AIG's outstanding consolidated financial results for
the second quarter. Then, I will review results for general insurance and life retirement in
more detail. Following that, I will provide an update on the progress we're making on AIG
200 and the operational separation of life retirement from AIG.
Next, I will provide details on the strategic partnership we announced with Blackstone in
July, which represents a significant milestone for AIG, and a major step forward towards
the IPO of life retirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

And lastly, I will provide an update on our capital management strategy, where our nearterm priorities remained the same as what I've outlined in the past, debt reduction, return
of capital to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and investment in organic
growth. Mark will provide additional details on the quarter, and we'll then take questions.
Starting with our consolidated results, I'm pleased to report that AIG had an outstanding
second quarter. We have sustained the significant momentum we had coming into 2021
through the first half of the year and delivered exceptional performance in general
insurance with strong top-line growth and significant improvement in our combined ratios.
Our pivot to growth and focus on demonstrating leadership in marketplace accelerated
through the second quarter, as we continue to prioritize underwriting discipline, portfolio
optimization, reducing volatility and growing in segments, where market conditions are
favorable and fall within our risk appetite.
We also saw very good results in our life retirement business primarily driven by improved
investment performance. Life and retirements adjusted pre-tax income increased 26%
year-over-year, and the business delivered a return on adjusted segment common equity
of 16.4%.
We continue to advance AIG 200 with the transformation remaining on track to deliver $1
billion in run-rate savings across the company by the end of 2022 against a cost to
achieve of $1.3 billion. And as you saw in our press release, our adjusted after-tax income
in the second quarter was a $1.52 per diluted share compared to $0.64 in the prior year
quarter.
Turning to our financial results, I'll start with general insurance. Growth in net premiums
written was very strong in the second quarter, accelerating from the first quarter and
Page 2 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

continuing the trend that began in 2020 as our heaviest remediation efforts were nearing
completion.
Net premiums written increased 24% year-over-year to $6.9 billion or approximately 20%,
excluding foreign exchange. Growth was strong across both global commercial and
personal. Global commercial net premiums written increased 13% excluding foreign
exchange, reflecting growth in areas with attractive risk-adjusted returns, improving
renewal retentions and more than 25% increase in new business compared to the prior
year quarter, and overall rate increases of 13%.
North America commercial net premiums written increased 15%, excluding foreign
exchange, including strong growth in excess casualty, financial lines, retail property, AIG Re
and Lexington. New business increased 25% from the prior-year quarter, led by financial
lines and Lexington wholesale. And renewal retentions improved 300 basis points over
the same period.
It's worth noting that Lexington had its strongest quarter of new business, since we fully
reposition its operating model to focus on wholesale distribution in excess and surplus
lines. This business has significant momentum, which we expect will continue for the
foreseeable future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Shifting the international commercial, net premiums written grew 10%, excluding foreign
exchange. Primarily driven by financial lines across the UK, EMEA and Asia-Pacific global
specialty, particularly marine and energy, and Talbot, our Lloyd's syndicate.
New business increased 26% from the prior year period, led by financial lines, marine,
energy and Talbot, and renewal retentions increased by 500 basis points over the same
period. It's important to emphasize that the growth we're achieving across commercial is
aligned with our risk appetite that we've been executing against over the past three
years.
We continue to prudently deploy limits, including with respect to new business with an
intense focus on risk aggregation. In addition to strong retention, our growth is being
driven by exceptional new business, which in global commercial was a $1 billion in the
second quarter.
With respect to personal insurance, as we discuss on last quarter's call, the unusually high
growth in net premiums written was largely reflective of the creation of Syndicate 2019 in
the second quarter of 2020, when the reinsurance sessions associated with creating that
syndicate.
Turning to rate. Momentum continued with overall global commercial rate increases of
13%. North America commercial rate increases were 13% with the most notable
improvements in excess casualty, which was up 20%; Lexington casualty, which was up
19%; and Lexington wholesale property, which was up 15%.

Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

International commercial rate increases were also 13% driven by financial lines, which was
up 21%; property, which was up 18%; and energy, which was up 16%. Across the global
portfolio, the largest rate increases were in cyber, where rates were up almost 40% with
the strongest rate increases in North America.
We continue to carefully reduce cyber limits and are obtaining tighter terms and
conditions to address increasing cyber-loss trends. The rising threat associated with
ransomware and the systemic nature of cyber risk generally.
Underwriting excellence, thoughtful risk selection, tighter terms and conditions, and
improving rate adequacy have been core areas of focus as we transformed our portfolio.
The General Insurance accident year combined ratio, ex-CAT, improved for the 12th
consecutive quarter coming in at 91.1%, an improvement of 380 basis points from the
second quarter of 2020, and an improvement of 990 basis points from the second
quarter of 2018.
This improvement was comprised of a 160 basis point improvement in the accident year
loss ratio ex-CAT and a 220 basis point improvement in the expense ratio at AIG 200 and
the benefits of premium growth continue to contribute a profitability. Global commercial
achieved an accident year combined ratio ex-CAT of 89.3%, an improvement of 500
basis points year-over-year. This is the best result commercials reported in the last 15
years.

Bloomberg Transcript

In personal insurance, the accident year combined ratio ex-CAT was 95.1% of 70 basis
point improvement over the prior year quarter.
Now just a quick comment on reinsurance purchased across general insurance, where we
continue to evolve our reinsurance program to reflect our significantly improved
underlying portfolio. In the second quarter, we were very active in the market with 25
specific layers on a variety of treaties placed. Notably, in nearly every instance, we were
able to enhance our terms and conditions, and our placements were at equivalent or
improved pricing in a reinsurance market that is experiencing tighter terms and conditions
and rate increases.
With respect to our property cap program in particular, we took the opportunity in the
second quarter to further reduce our per occurrence attachment point in North America
through several by down CAT layers for peak zone exposures.
Lastly, on general insurance, we remain confident that we will achieve a sub 90 action year
combined ratio ex-CATs by the end of 2022. Based on the progress that I've seen in our
underwriting, the ongoing efforts and optimizing our portfolio, the terrific execution of AIG
200 and the significant momentum we developed, I'm optimistic, we'll get there sooner.
As we move through the second half of the year and get further into AIG 200 and
separation execution, we will provide further comment on our combined ratio
expectations.

Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

Now let me turn to AIG Re, which oversees our global assumed reinsurance business.
Net premiums written across all lines increased more than 30% in the second quarter
compared to the prior year period. Writings were balanced across multiple lines of
business with risk-adjusted returns and underwriting ratios improving across the portfolio.
Highlights of AIG Re's second quarter results include the following. In U.S. property CAT,
we saw rate improvements across all U.S. property business sectors. Increases range from
mid-single digits to upwards of 25% depending on geography and loss-affected accounts.
In Florida, Validus Re net limits at June 2021 were reduced by more than 40% in
coordination with AlphaCat. Since AIG's acquisition of Validus Re in 2018, we reduced the
overall limit in Florida by more than 65% or approximately $400 million of annual limit,
demonstrating Validus Re's continued discipline and focus on volatility reduction.
Further, Florida-specific firms now represent less than 2% of Validus Re's total net
premiums written. Our focus remains on regional and nationwide firms in the U.S. as well
as international diversification.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, in 2020 and through the second quarter of 2021, less than 25% of AIG's net
premiums written came from property lines. Building on our retrocessional purchase on 1/1
of worldwide aggregate protection, Validus Re secured further retrocessional protections
in June. Specifically, we purchased more peak zone coverage for U.S. wind, Asia wind and
California earthquake for the 2021 season. Overall, we have substantially enhanced our
portfolio despite heightened competition.
We're very pleased with how AIG Re has evolved. We have exceptionally strong
intermediary market support as well as strong client relationships, which have resulted in
significant renewal retention and signings.
In addition, we've upgraded the talent across the board and have broadened the skill sets
of our leaders. We believe this business is much more prepared to assess and
opportunistically respond to market conditions.
Turning to Life Retirement. This business once again delivered very strong results. Life and
Retirement's broad leadership position across products and channels enabled us to take
advantage of the significant rebound in retail annuity sales with total annuity sales up
significantly across our entire annuity offering.
Our strong sales resulted in positive individual retirement annuity net flows during the
quarter. Group Retirement deposits were higher compared to first quarter 2021 levels.
And second quarter 2021 new plan participant enrollments increased 20% year-over-year.
As demonstrated regularly in recent quarters, our high-quality investment portfolio is well
positioned to navigate uncertain environments. Our variable annuity hedging program has
continued to perform as expected, providing downside protection during prolonged
periods of volatility.
Page 5 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Finally, the strategic partnership with Blackstone further positions Life and Retirement to
expand its distribution relationships, enhance its product offerings, and the business will
benefit from Blackstone's significant capabilities.

FINAL

Now let me turn to AIG 200, our global multiyear effort to position AIG for the long term.
AIG 200 is continuing with a sense of urgency, with all 10 operational programs deep into
execution mode.
We're 18 months into the transformation, and we have a clear execution path to $1 billion
in run rate cost savings, with $550 million already executed or contracted, $355 million of
which has been recognized to date in our income statement.
AIG 200 continues to build a strong foundation across the company and instill a culture of
operational excellence.
Turning to the separation of Life Retirement. We made considerable progress in the
second quarter with a focus on speed execution with minimal business disruption. Our
separation management office has identified day one requirements for Life and
Retirement to become a stand-alone company, and multiple work streams are underway.
This work includes aligning our investments unit with Life and Retirement and preparing
for the Blackstone partnership to close.

Bloomberg Transcript

The speed with which our colleagues have moved would not have been possible without
the foundational work that's been done as part of AIG 200.
As I've discussed on prior calls, an IPO of up to 19.9% of Life and Retirement was our base
case since we announced our intention to separate the business from AIG last October.
And we continue to believe an IPO will maximize value for our stakeholders and position
the business for additional value creation as a public company.
I also noted on our last call that following our announcement, we interested in purchasing
a minority stake in Life Retirement as well as our entire investment management group.
One of those parties was Blackstone.
We ultimately decided not to pursue the original proposed transactions because we
determined that selling the entire investment management group was not in the longterm interest of Life and Retirement, and some of the proposals also contemplated
significant reinsurance transactions ahead of an IPO, which we didn't believe would
optimize the outcome for shareholders at this stage in the process.
In June, Blackstone reengaged with us to determine if we could find a mutually beneficial
way to partner that would further our goals for the separation of Life and Retirement.
These discussions led to the announcement of the strategic partnership we entered into
in mid-July.

Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

We continue to work with a sense of urgency towards an IPO of the Life Retirement
business. Following the 9.9% equity investment by Blackstone, the IPO will likely be the
first quarter of 2022 event subject to required regulatory approvals and market
conditions. We previously viewed the fourth quarter of this year as the earliest in IPO
would occur with the first quarter of 2022 as a more likely outcome. So our time line is
essentially unchanged even with the announced Blackstone transaction.
Additionally, the gain on sale of affordable housing, coupled with other factors, provides
us with flexibility to sell down beyond 19. 9% as we now expect to fully utilize our foreign
tax credits in 2022.
This development facilitated our partnership with Blackstone and as a result, made it
more compelling compared to structures we considered since our separation
announcement last October. We believe that we are better positioned to accelerate
operational separation. And as a result, Life Retirement will be more comprehensively
established as an independent company when the IPO occurs.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let me provide additional detail on the Blackstone partnership, which represents a
significant milestone for AIG and provides meaningful momentum for the IPO of Life and
Retirement. As I mentioned, this partnership represents the culmination of discussions
that took place over the last year on several strategic initiatives, and we view it as very
beneficial for AIG and Blackstone.
Blackstone's leadership has indicated for some time that insurance is a key strategic
priority for their firm. And the investment Blackstone is making in our Life and Retirement
business is the single largest corporate investment the firm has made in its 35-year
history, and Life Retirement is now Blackstone's single largest client.
This substantial commitment by Blackstone highlights the strength of Life Retirement's
business. Blackstone's belief in the value of the investment and it's a validation of Life
Retirement's market-leading position.
Furthermore, John Gray, President and COO of Blackstone, was directly involved in the
negotiations. He has been a great partner throughout and will join the Board of Directors
of the IPO entity at the closing of the equity investment, which we expect to occur in
September.
Let me recap some of the terms of the transactions and how we're thinking about future
capital structures for AIG and Life Retirement as stand-alone businesses.
Blackstone will acquire a 9.9% cornerstone equity stake in the holding company for AIG's
Life Retirement business for $2.2 billion in an all-cash transaction. The purchase price is
equivalent to a multiple of 1.1x a target pro forma adjusted book value of $20.2 billion. The
adjusted book value reflects the combined book value of our Life Retirement business,
and a majority of our investments unit as well as the financing arrangements to be
undertaken and the amounts to be paid from that entity to AIG just prior to the IPO.

Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

As we look to the permanent structure of the IPO entity, we will be raising debt at this
entity consistent with its ratings and peer leverage ratios. The new debt will be used to
pay down AIG debt such that the debt stack at AIG and at the IPO entity will both be in
line with each company's peers and what we view as the optimal debt to total capital ratio
for each company.
Life and Retirement will also enter into separately managed account agreements or SMAs
with Blackstone, whereby Blackstone will manage $50 billion of specific asset classes with
that amount growing to $92.5 billion over a 6-year period.
Lastly, as I alluded to earlier, we sold certain affordable housing assets to Blackstone Real
Estate Income Trust for $5.1 billion in an all-cash transaction, which is expected to close by
the year-end 2021.
Turning to capital management. We ended the second quarter with $7.2 billion of parent
liquidity. The net proceeds from the Blackstone transactions resulted in additional liquidity
of $6.2 billion to AIG by year-end 2021. Through the remainder of this year, we plan to pay
down $2.5 billion of AIG debt and buy back at least $2 billion of common stock.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we announced in our press release, the AIG Board has authorized additional share
repurchases, which, together with the remaining approximately $1 billion left on our prior
authorization, brings our total stock buyback authorization to $6 billion.
Together, these capital management actions demonstrate our commitment to delever
and return capital to shareholders. In addition, the strength of our overall capital position
leaves us with ample capacity to continue to invest in growth, particularly in General
Insurance, where market conditions continue to be extremely favorable.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark to provide more detail on the quarter.

Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Thank you, Peter, and good morning, everyone. For the second quarter of 2021, AIG
reported adjusted pretax income, or APTI, of $1.7 billion and adjusted after-tax income of
$1.3 billion. We produced an annualized return on adjusted common equity of 10.5% for
AIG, 12.3% for General Insurance and 16.4% for Life and Retirement. The annualized return
on adjusted tangible common equity was 11.6% for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis, AIG reported $91 million of net income with the principal difference
between GAAP and adjusted after-tax income of $1.3 billion being the accounting
treatment of Fortitude, net investment income and associated realized gains and losses.
Before I move to general insurance though, I'd like to add to Peter's remarks on the
Blackstone SMA. This arrangement incorporates specific specialty asset classes
comprised mostly of private credit alternatives and structured products, where Blackstone

Page 8 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

is a world leader in sourcing and origination and has a demonstrated track record of
delivering yield uplift and not public fixed income securities.
The fee structure is 30 basis points on the initial $50 billion of AUM, increasing to 45 basis
points for the annual new AUM of $8.5 billion, starting 4 quarters later as well as for the
reinvested runoff AUM. Therefore, fee should rise from 30 basis points initially towards 43
basis points by the end of the initial 6-year contract term for Blackstone's share of the
assets.
For this part of our portfolio, it's fair to expect that fees will somewhat precede the
benefits of the impact of enhanced origination and differentiated asset classes and
recognition of related yield uplift.
We believe this SMA arrangement is unique in that L&R maintains control over its overall
asset allocation, asset liability management liquidity and credit profile and the nature of
individual investment structures.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, Life and Retirement has the opportunity to enhance overall investment
management by focusing on improving efficiencies and asset classes that are not part of
the SMA as well as optimizing performance across the whole portfolio. We believe the
combination of these efficiencies, together with the Blackstone focus on maximizing the
performance of SMA assets and growth opportunities on the overall AUM, should drive
net yield uplift.
Before leaving the Blackstone transaction, I want to note that a GAAP loss on sale is
anticipated with a 9.9% equity purchase by Blackstone as well as with subsequent IPO selldowns due to the inclusion of OCI and GAAP book value. Given that OCI in future periods
is subject to market fluctuations, the impact cannot be fully estimated at this time.
As respects affordable housing, note that the $5.1 billion purchase price to an approximate
$3 billion after-tax gain on sale, which will benefit book value and provides approximately
$4 billion of cash to parent with a minority portion held back in a regulated Life and
Retirement entity to further strengthen an already historically strong RBC level. This
transaction is expected to close by year-end 2021.
Moving to General Insurance. Second quarter adjusted pretax income was $1.2 billion, up
$1 billion even year-over-year, primarily reflecting increased pretax underwriting income of
over $800 million along with $200 million and change of increased pretax net investment
income, driven primarily by private equity returns.
Catastrophe losses of $118 million were significantly lower this quarter compared to $674
million in the prior year quarter. Prior year development was $51 million favorable this
quarter compared to favorable development of $74 million in the prior year quarter. This
included $58 million of net favorable development in North America and $7 million of net
unfavorable development in international, both of which reflect marginal changes in the
underlying operations.

Page 9 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

As usual, there is net favorable amortization from the adverse development cover, which
amounted to $49 million this quarter. It's important to put in context, though, the recent
strength of the property and casualty market and how General Insurance has executed
within this environment.
As Peter mentioned in his remarks, the book has had nearly 3 turns at correction since
2018. Risk appetite and risk selection have been materially sharpened. Complementary
and properly evolving reinsurance programs have been implemented. Certain lines and
segments were exited or massively reduced.
Clear and broader distribution has been embraced, and Lexington has been stood up as
a major E&S platform. All of this was accomplished while simultaneously achieving
significant rate in excess of loss cost trends with materially better terms and conditions.
These actions form the foundation as to why General Insurance has shown material
improvement in the underlying accident year ex CAT combined ratios in both the
historically underperforming North America Commercial segment and the International
Commercial segment as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

North America Commercial has shown a 620 basis point improvement in the accident
year ex CAT combined ratio over the prior year quarter. The International Commercial
segment has continued to improve profitability with 370 basis points improvement
compared to the prior year quarter.
This shows demonstrable margin improvement stemming from the totality of the actions
enumerated earlier, and this level of global commercial improvement is noteworthy as
Global Commercial made up 71% of worldwide net premiums written through the first half
of 2021.
Additionally, the global commercial book is increasingly becoming a global specialty book
comprised of below frequency, high severity coverages. As a result, General Insurance
commercial, although large and global in scope, is not a mere index of the market, but
instead an underwriting company, where risk selection and business mix are important
factors in achieving profitable growth while mitigating volatility.
Turning to Personal Insurance. As we noted on our first quarter earnings call, our yearover-year net premium written comparison for the second quarter would improve given
the timing of the initial COVID-19 impact and the distortions from Syndicate 2019 being
reflected also during the second quarter of 2020.
Global Personal Lines net premiums written grew by approximately 45% or 41% on a
constant dollar basis aided by the Syndicate 2019 comparison. Elsewhere within the
segment, the second quarter of 2021 North America Personal Insurance saw premiums in
travel and warranty business increase.

Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

This was driven by a rebound in travel activity and increased consumer spending, but not
yet back to the pre-pandemic levels. Our outlook for net premiums written for the next 6
months in North America Personal Insurance is between $450 million and $500 million per
quarter.
We continue to anticipate earned margin expansion throughout 2021 and into 2022,
resulting from AIG's favorable underwriting actions taken and global market conditions
involving strong rate increases well above loss trend, improved terms and conditions and
a more profitable, less volatile mix.
Given the specific market dynamics of where we choose to play, we don't foresee any
material slowing down in a cheaper rate levels throughout the balance of the year.
Now I'd like to comment a bit on inflation, which one needs to think about in terms of both
economic and social inflation. Based on the Consumer Price Index and the Producer Price
which has accelerated since March. Some components of the indices have become
worrisome such as used cars and trucks being up about 45% and energy commodities
being north of 40%.

Bloomberg Transcript

But medical care services, whose impact stretches across most casualty, auto, workers'
compensation and excess placements, although higher are much more tame than
headline inflation would indicate, with physician services up about 4% recently and hospital
services up about 2.5%.
Costs involving labor, materials, construction and related services are up and will impact
property coverages and CAT claim costs in the near term. These indications demonstrate
that the inflationary impact on any given insurer is a direct function of the products and the
mix they write and where they play within an insurance program.
Social inflation, however, is much more of a U.S. centric phenomenon, driven by a highly
litigious culture. Social inflation also has correlations to social change initiatives, including
income inequality and changing sentiments towards business, to name a few.
Being further away from risk though, is a meaningful inflation counter, and AIG's General
Insurance has taken strong preemptive action in that regard by minimizing lead umbrellas
in favor of higher positions within insurance programs.
For example, our excess casualty average attachment points for national and corporate
U.S. accounts have increased approximately 3.5x and 5.5x, respectively, since 2018. This
significantly increased distance from attaching is a key overall portfolio benefit. Taken all
together, a U.S. view towards a total inflation rate of 4% to 5% is arguably reasonable for
the near to medium term. Our second quarter rate increases, together with our view of
pricing for the rest of the year, provide continued margin in excess of this loss cost trend.
Now turning to Life and Retirement. When compared with the prior year, favorable equity
markets drove higher alternative investment returns, principally higher private equity
Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

returns, which reflect the impact of the 1 quarter lag on the period. Life insurance
continues to reflect the COVID-19-related mortality provision that has dropped relative to
the prior quarters.

FINAL

We estimate our exposure to the population is approximately $65 million to $75 million
per 100,000 population death. Mortality, however, exclusive of COVID-19 continues to be
favorable compared to pricing assumptions.
Within individual retirement, excluding the retail mutual fund business, net flows were
positive for the quarter and favorable by over $1.2 billion when compared with the second
quarter of 2020, led by index annuities, rebounding to be higher by approximately $700
million with variable annuity net flow being about $365 million stronger year-over-year.
Group Retirement premiums and deposits were up with net flows being relatively flat
while also experiencing an improved surrender rate sequentially. The Life business has
seen consistent premiums and lower lapse surrender rates over the last 4 quarters than
prior.

Bloomberg Transcript

And for institutional markets, prime and deposits were up compared to the prior year and
sequentially. GIC issuance was also higher both sequentially and year-over-year, and we
executed several large pension risk transfer transactions during the quarter. The pipeline
for pension risk transfer opportunities, both direct and through reinsurance, remain very
strong in both the U.S. and in the U.K.
We continue to actively manage the impacts from the low interest rate and tighter credit
spread environment, and our earlier provided range for expected annual spread
compression has not changed, as our base investment spreads for the second quarter
were within our annual 8- to 16-point guidance.
Further, new business margins generally remain within our targets at current new money
returns due to active product management and a disciplined pricing approach.
Lastly, post June 30, we closed on the sale of our retail mutual fund operation. As you are
aware, retail mutual funds has contributed negative net flows over the last 2 years, and
the drag from this will now cease.
Moving to other operations. The adjusted pretax loss was $610 million, inclusive of $94
million from consolidation and elimination entries, which principally reflect adjustments
offsetting investment returns in the subsidiaries, which are then eliminated at other
operations.
Before consolidations and eliminations, the adjusted pretax loss was $516 million, $184
million worse than the second quarter of 2020, but that quarter included 2 months of
Fortitude Re results of $96 million. In addition, during the second quarter of 2021, we also
increased prior year legacy loss reserves by a net $65 million driven mostly by Blackboard
exposures, and we increased our incentive program approval to reflect the strong
Page 12 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

FINAL

performance year-to-date whereas in 2020, we began adjusting our incentive program
accrual in the third quarter. After applying these adjustments, the comparison is actually
favorable year-over-year.
Shifting to investments. Overall net investment income on an APTI basis was $3.2 billion,
virtually flat from the second quarter of 2020. But again, adjusting the second quarter of
2020 for Fortitude net investment income over that 2-month period, this quarter's net
investment income was $362 million higher than the prior year, reflecting strong private
equity returns and an annualized 27% return rate for the quarter and hedge fund results at
a 21% annualized return rate for the quarter, along with stable interest and dividend
income.
Turning to the balance sheet at June 30. Book value per common share was $76.73, up 7%
from 1 year ago. Adjusted book value per common share was $60.07 per share, up 7.5%
from 1 year ago, driven primarily by strong operating performance. And adjusted tangible
book value per common share was $54.24, up 8.1% from a year ago.

Bloomberg Transcript

As Peter noted, at quarter end, AIG parent liquidity was $7.2 billion. During the second
quarter, we made a $354 million prepayment to the U.S. Treasury in connection with
certain tax settlement agreements emanating from the pre-2007 period as well as
completed debt tenders for an aggregate purchase price of $359 million. Our debt
leverage at June 30 was 27% even, down 140 basis points from the end of 2020 and
down 360 basis points from June 30, 1 year ago.
Our primary operating subsidiaries remain profitable and well capitalized. For General
Insurance, we estimate the U.S. pool fleet risk-based capital ratio for the second quarter
to be between 460% and 470%, and Life and Retirement is estimated to be between
440% and 450%, both above our target ranges.
Lastly, as respect to tax, I want to reiterate that the remaining net operating loss or NOL
portion of AIG's DTA at the time of deconsolidating L&R for tax purposes, will still be
available to offset future General Insurance and/or AIG taxable income through their
natural expiration. As of June 30, that portion of the DTA totaled $6.3 billion and is
available to offset up to $30 billion of taxable income.
Upon tax deconsolidation, what will cease is the ability to utilize up to 35% of life
insurance company income against NOLs or any remaining FCC.
With that, I will now turn it back over to Peter.

Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. Operator, we'll go to question-and-answer.

Questions And Answers
Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Operator
(Question And Answer)

FINAL

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question
from Elyse Greenspan from Wells Fargo. Your line is open. Please state your question.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Hi, thanks. Good morning. My first question, Peter, you said you guys to get to that sub-90
margin target, within General Insurance perhaps sooner than expected. I was hoping you
could expand on that just in terms of time frame, and when you make that comment, are
you assuming stable pricing and inflation kind of remain around 4% to 5% based off of
what Mark said into 2022.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks Elyse. I've talked about in the past that there's many components that are going
to drive improved combined ratio. The first is the absolute underwriting performance and
we're seeing that come through and what Mark covered in his script in terms of severity,
attritional losses, and just less volatility. In addition, we have seen strong top-line growth
and believe that's in the commercial side, we're in that market now and see that
continuing, we need less reinsurance, that we once needed because of the makeup of
the portfolio.
For those are all tailwinds, and then in addition to that, you have AIG 200 which I gave
some numbers on my prepared remarks that we have real tailwind they're not only are
we going to continue to have a clear sight in the overall path to $1 billion, but it's starting
to earn through in the income statement. And just our overall expense discipline.
So, we don't have heavily rely on one component. There's four to five that drive it. And
no, it does not require us to be in the same rate environment. I mean, have to be in the
range on the social inflation and loss cost inflation. But we watch that all the time and
believe that we have a lot of momentum. And I'll give more guidance, specifically, in the
next couple of quarters. I mean, the momentum I've seen and the excellent job that Dave
McElroy and the entire leadership team have done in General Insurance is a real
differentiator, and the momentum they have is tremendous. So, it just leaves me with a lot
of optimism.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Great. And then my second question in terms of Life & Retirement now that you did this
initial sale with Blackstone and you emphasize using most of the foreign tax credits. So, it
sounds like tax considerations won't impact the amount of L&R that you guys playing to
the public market. Did you have a sense of how much you're going to bring on to the
public markets? And then, in terms of the proceeds you guys get there, since you're
paying down $2.5 billion of debt now, will the majority of the proceeds from future
transactions to be used for a buyback and organic growth?

Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thanks, Elyse. In terms of the timing, as I said we're targeting, a first quarter IPO,
we're working really hard on the operational separation, we will close with Blackstone,
who's going to be a tremendous partner for us, we hope in July. And so working over the
next six months to position life retirement to have a very successful IPO is the primary
focus.
Second is we have to, think about I said in my prepared remarks of like the regulatory
environment, and the market itself. So, that will really dictate in terms of how much we do,
and it just gives us a lot of flexibility to, according it up, if there's really favorable market
conditions or just to go in with a, we wouldn't go to an IPO with a 9.9%, we will do
something larger than that. But the size, timing, we will continue to give you guidance as
we get further along in the year, with the progress that we're making.
I don't know Mark, if you want to add anything in the capital management and the debt?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Just I think the core point was to emphasize that this removes the constraint. So, rather
than on the specifics of the sizing, which is Peter said was very market sensitive and
contingent. But having that ability now to not have such a constraint is the main point we
really wanted to push over.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Quentin McMillan

{BIO 20877504 <GO>}

Thanks. Next question, please.

Operator
We will take our next question from Meyer Shields from KBW Investment Bank. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Great. Pardon me thanks. First question on the Blackstone partnership. Can you give us a
sense of what the internal expenses are that are comparable to the 30 and 45 basis
points that will constitute the fees?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Yes, Meyer, thank you for the question. I'll turn it over to Mark in a second. But I think that,
when we looked at the partnership with Blackstone, there was a variety of factors that
went into it, certainly then making a commitment on the equity investment, making certain
that life retirement still maintained, its authority and ability to shape the investments with
Blackstone. So, we've contained that. A lot of the assets that we have or will transfer, our
class is that they have exceptional track records on. And so, we're working through that.
We do believe that the AUM will grow over time with life retirement. And so, this will
become a smaller percentage. And the base case was that not only with Blackstone
partnership that our overall business model will evolve to be more efficient over time.
Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

But Mark maybe you could fill in a couple of the details of that.

FINAL

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Yes. Well Meyer, as Peter said, the level of these specialty assets are usually much more
labor intensive and are always on the higher end of the scale, if you think of it in a rate
card. And so that card is completely within expectations of what we would say, within -with our own internal structures, we would have also increasing costs, as you gradually up
to the overall asset class categories that they are experiencing for us. So, there's some
GAAP, but some of that cost accounting view is less clear than you think. But we know
what the value we're going to be getting out of that is going to be more than worth it.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay, understood. Second question, I guess, this is probably for Mark. I know the expense
ratio of the North American Personal have been distorted up till the second quarter
because of, I guess the first travel insurance and the Syndicate. Is the second quarter
expense ratio run rate, are those representative of what we should see going forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

What I think that you're going to, let me make a general statement first, and that is that, I
think, Peter tries a position that's have been, we may have said this a little bit in past calls.
But you should think of the combined ratio gains on the commercial side of being loss
ratio and expense ratio driven. And on the personal line side more expense ratio driven.
We've got a lot more stability in the loss ratios on there. So, you'll continue to see that.
But to the extent it's roughly, I would actually say, you should anticipate the expense ratio
to continue to improve in North America Personal.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

And one thing I would add Meyer, in terms of Mark just noted is that, the high net worth
space is changing dramatically in peak zones. We expect to see continued change in the
excess and surplus lines as more alternatives was basically split in the second quarter
between admitted and not admitted new business.
So, that's just something that we're going to watch. I mean, there's no specific trends that
are going to be substantially different than the guidance we've given. But there is some
change in that business that we want to make sure with the market leading position that
we take advantage of solving problems for clients, but also reposition the portfolio to
have less volatility.

A - Quentin McMillan

{BIO 20877504 <GO>}

Okay. Next question, please.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Erik Bass from Autonomous Research. Your line is open.
Please state your question.
Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Q - Erik Bass

{BIO 19920101 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi. Thank you. So, can you talk a little bit more about the asset management agreement
with Blackstone and how you see this affecting Life and Retirement, NII over the next
couple of years? It sounds like you expect some initial dilution. But when should this turn
and start being creative to NII? And also will any of the assets, they managed be used to
support new business and could this help to be even more competitive than your fixed
index annuity offerings?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Hey, Mark why don't you start and then turn over to Kevin in terms of talking about
product.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Peter. Yes, I think Kevin will have a few things to help you with there as
well. So, on the asset manager, think of it this way Erik, you've got the uplift will come
more delay than the fees to your point, firstly.

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly is, as the $50 billion of AUM is work through, we have been -- thinking about
it mostly it takes seven years for that run-off to turnover, as that occurs it also shifts from
30 to 45 basis points. The $8.5 million annually that will also come in to take it to the 92.5
will be at 45 bps. So, you kind of have that curve that I was alluding to in my prepared
remarks. So, as a result of that, you're going to have net yield uplift coming through as a
function of when those investments can be made.
So, if you think of it, you're really at the end of year one, you still have 85% of the original
AUM still not turned over, which is why you get the delay aspect. But it's we expect that to
chip away and close a lot sooner than you might think. But that is the important point to
remember is that L&R completely has that control. So, that the take off between the
liquidity and the rating distributions, and the asset distribution, and capital trade-offs and
so forth, is within the management discretion of L&R. Kevin?

A - Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. So, Erik, I think, what's important is to keep in mind that this is not a
change in our portfolio strategy. This is an enhancement of our portfolio strategy.
Blackstone has tremendous origination capabilities. We believe that their ability to
originate in these asset classes exceeds our current ability.
And in addition to that, they have a broader range of assets within the subclasses and the
combination of their ability to originate with more capacity and also the breadth of their
asset classes, we believe will allow us to create new products to support transactions.
And our intention will be to work together to innovate strategies that will allow us to grow
faster. We do not think of the balance sheet as static. We think about a growing balance
sheet. And so, rather than focusing just on the yield of this part of the portfolio. I think
about the overall portfolio strategy. So, again, this is not a change in our strategy. This is
an enhancement of it and that's how we think about it.

Page 17 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

Q - Erik Bass

{BIO 19920101 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. And then can you help us think about the level of new public expenses, Life &
Retirement will have. And will these be able to be offset by savings elsewhere? And then,
how should we think about the level of expenses that are running through other ops that
will remain with the parent kind of the post-separation?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Erik, let me handle that one. The guidance that I provided in the past and will stay with is
that, there are meaningful savings for Life & Retirement within AIG 200 that will be
tailwinds to them. We had set around $125 million, Life & Retirement achieved some of
that, but there's a big number left for us in terms of earning through that over the next 18
months. So, think about roughly a $100 million of AIG 200 benefits, then there is
allocations and parents service fees that goes over to Life & Retirement today, that will
either dissipate or will still have those services, as we transition for Life & Retirement to
become a public company.
So, that's in the range of $75 million plus. So, Kevin has a decent amount to invest towards
building out the public company. And we think with other initiatives for expense saving
through separation office that it should largely be neutral to Life & Retirement. And we
think the synergies that exist within the remaining company AIG that it's neutral to
beneficial. And will give more guidance as we get closer to the end of the year, when
we've done more work in the separation office.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. We will take our next question from Phil Stefano from Deutsche Bank. Your line
is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Phil Stef ano

{BIO 18965951 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks. Good morning. Looking at the General Insurance book and mostly focus on
commercial, when we look at the gap in net written versus net unearned. I mean, it's
clearly there is a runway just given, where the pricing is today for the continued
improvement in the underlying loss is there? How are you thinking about rate adequacy
the need to continue to push for rate versus just growing and dialing back the rate that
you're getting now. How are you balancing these two dynamics?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Thank you very much for the question. Mark put a lot of comments in his prepared
remarks. We watch loss cost inflation and margin on everything we do in terms of portfolio
optimization. That's really what I referred to when I talk about how do we position General
Insurance, particularly in the commercial side to have an optimized portfolio.
We've had several years of rate increases, we're building margin in some specific lines of
business have been getting more rate than others and that ones that need it. But it's
something that, Dave McElroy and the entire team spend every day thinking about and
believe that there is absolute runway to continue to develop margin.
Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

But Dave, do you want to talk a little bit about how you're approaching it and some of the
different segments of the business that you're focused on?

FINAL

A - David McElroy

{BIO 15192036 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Peter. Thank you, Phil. The rate increase story is one you don't you want to
make sure it's calibrated off of all the other things you're doing in the portfolio. So, what
we've done over the last three years is a lot of risk selection in terms of conditions and
attachment point and account exposures and managing that. So, if you fall in love with a
singular rate increasing number and you define your book, you ultimately probably end up
adversely selected again. So, you actually have to put that in context.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I always use examples it's like I might have got 10% rate increase on a contractor in
New York and I'm still chasing New York labor law, I will lose. Okay. And for the industry, it's
a little bit of like commercial auto. We've been getting rate increases in commercial auto
for eight years and we still haven't solved that problem. So, rate increase can be a false
positive. What we've done with a sort of technical understanding of it, looking at it, and
aggressively under -- realizing that we have a large account book, upper middle market
book and we need more rate to reflect the more complexity of that book.
So, that's we think that sustainable going into the latter part of this year, okay. We think we
can accommodate what would be expected loss cost inflations. And we're at the same
time and this is what I've observed in the last quarter is, there's more pricing to the
account, the account characteristics, is it moderated? Yes, a little bit okay. But it's
moderated off of still over loss cost trends. And what I would say, when I look at my
dispersion charts, we don't have the same outlier plus 30% up, but we have a swell of
more of a plus 5 to 10, plus 10 to 20, plus 20 to 30 type of accounts that are basically
aggregating in that in terms of rate reflecting the exposure.
The other piece, and I -- we have to be careful with it, because we want to reflect our
book and our clients. But we do -- we are in the multi-year phase of a re-underwriting and
an influence in the market. And when you look at compounding and you look at the
compounding that might exist in excess casualty or primary D&O, okay, or even programs
okay. These are numbers that are plus 93%, plus 86%, plus 70%, over a period of time of
starting in late '18 to the first half of 2021. It's not a panacea, okay. If you're -- if I was trying
to write investment banking, when I got 90%, I probably would still lose. But I mean it's a
good baseline for the progress that we've done with the business.
The last thing, I'd say is that, we had a lot of new business this quarter. I think it was cited
on a couple of calls. And remember, this is also being priced now with an elevated
rate/price structure. So, the same business, two years ago or three years ago is now up
that 30% to 40%, when we can produce it as a piece of new business. And that's very
much formed a lot of our success in this quarter was moving from remediation to an
offense of point, capturing the quality of what AIG has with multinational claims reputation
complexity and actually building off of that for the strongest new business we've had in a
while.

Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

So, that flows off of a technical rate increases and our consistent view of that. But it's
important to sort of lay that all out. So, you understand that we're not -- we're really
looking at this with the lens on all aspects of the business. So, with that, --

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you.

Q - Phil Stef ano

{BIO 18965951 <GO>}

Yes, thanks. That's very thorough. Look may be as a quicker one.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Tracy Benguigui from Barclays. Please go ahead.

A - Quentin McMillan

{BIO 20877504 <GO>}

We will take one last question and then -- yes, thank you.

Operator
Yes. Please go ahead, Tracy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Tracy Benguigui

{BIO 21808177 <GO>}

Thank you. I see that if there is an IPO contingency in the Blackstone transaction, is that
just a timing thing? Or is the IPO contingency also considering a pricing floor for minority
IPO proceed or a minimum equity stake size?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Thanks, Tracy. No, -- the 9.9% is predicated on a strategic partnership that starts to
accelerate all the things that we want to do to set Life & Retirement up to, to be a public
company. And, we're really focused on getting that done within the first quarter and
making sure that the organization is set-up to do that.
And again there's regulatory and market considerations that will always look at. But those
are really the bigger ones than tying really what the cornerstone investor has brought to
the table versus the eventual IPO.
As Mark mentioned, we have a lot more flexibility because of the consumption the foreign
tax credits. And so 2022, we will start to outline, what we think will likely happen as we get
closer to the end of the year.

Q - Tracy Benguigui

{BIO 21808177 <GO>}

Okay. Yes, I was just referring to some fine print in your 8-K. That if the IPO didn't happen,
there were some recourse, so I didn't know if there was something else that I should also

Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

be considering?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

FINAL

No.

Q - Tracy Benguigui

{BIO 21808177 <GO>}

Okay. Perfect. Look anyone could trade growth for margin expansion, but you're at a spot,
where you're doing both?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Tracy Benguigui

{BIO 21808177 <GO>}

And I guess the only place, where I don't have visibility is your loss tax. So, can you
conceptualize how your current loss rate [ph] that have been tracking, maybe relative to
last year, and your five-year average?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Mark, you want to cover that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 21746221 <GO>}

Sure. Hi Tracy. I guess a couple of things. First off, we are viewing, although we're showing
substantial margin improvement on a quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year basis, we
actually think we're being conservative in this. As I said I think on past calls, there has been
a lot of change over the last three years, including some of the fundamental channels in
which we get business.
So, we think we done every one of those correctly. Nobody match the thousand, so you
wind up having a little bit of risk margin associated with each over the last several years.
So, we feel -- feels good overall and we feel about the trajectory of the improvement and
where it's coming from. And that we're not booking and displaying things without having
an appropriate risk margin associated with it. I hope that's helpful.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks Mark. And I wanted to thank everyone for joining us today. Before we end
the call, I want to thank our colleagues around the world for what they've accomplished
over the last six months, especially considering the challenges that have been presented
in work remote environments. We've a talented hard-working colleague basis, executing
on multiple complex initiatives simultaneously, which I think makes us very unique. Very
proud of the team, remain very focused on ensuring quality and everything that we do,
and delivering significant value to all of our stakeholders. Have a great day.

Operator
Page 21 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2021-08-06

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

That concludes today's conference call. Thank you everyone for your participation. You
may now disconnect.

Page 22 of 22

