Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Costantino Moretti, Head, International Insurance
Cristina Nestares, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Geraint Jones, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Marisja Kocznur, Head of Investor Relations
Milena Mondini de Focatiis, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Faizan Lakhani
Freya Kong, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Risha Singh
Thomas Bateman, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Will Hardcastle, Analyst

Presentation
Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Welcome, everybody, to Admiral's Half Year Results 2021. Unfortunately, we are virtual
again. I'm Milena Mondini, Group CEO, and I will start today with a reminder of our
strategy, which remains unchanged and some reﬂection on our strong ﬁrst half result.
I'm here today with Geraint Jones, Group CFO, will talk to us about the ﬁnancial result;
Cristina Nestares, CEO of UK Insurance, will give us more detail on how you create
business with the key driver of this outcome; Costantino Moretti, Head of International,
will talk about the continued evolution of our overseas business. I will then come back to
share with you how our Loans business is back to growth anchored on solid foundations,
and conclude with our ambition for the longer-term sustainability of our business and the
larger community.
The key messages from us today are another set of strong results with proﬁt up 76%
driven by a combination of high reserve releases on the back years with higher level of
proﬁt commissions and no claims frequency as people drove less with COVID restrictions.
In addition, we will issue a record dividend of 161p per share that includes a ﬁrst part of
Penguin Portals sales proceeds. We are very pleased with this performance but there are
some exceptional elements in it and we don't expect replicated in the second half.

Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

While operating in very competitive market, we also delivered double-digit growth in our
customer base both in UK and overseas. Finally, we made further progress against our
strategy. We continue to strengthen our competence and infrastructure around the
[ph]emerging technology and improved customer experience, and we made further
progress and further steps in product diversiﬁcation. More in general despite the change
and COVID disruption, we remained very focused on strong execution on data and on
customers.
The strategy we presented in March remains unchanged. In a world of fast acceleration,
more demanding customers, new possibility unlocked by advanced data and technology,
our aim is to build on our strengths and on our relationship with customers would further
diversify our product oﬀering while delivering on customer expectations faster and you
will hear more about progress in these (inaudible) later today and year ahead. One thing
is the disruption to the business as in recent months. This strategy is important, but not as
much as good execution. And what really matters are the tactics and how you navigate in
this continued risk. So we will take few minutes today to mention a few example of good
rational execution both in bringing forward some of our strategic priorities and also
running the business as usual. Possibly, the most notable example is how we navigate the
cycle. As Cristina will show you later, we decreased price ahead of the market reﬂecting
lower frequency and once again increased price ahead of the markets as ﬂames started to
inﬂate. And this helped us to deliver good growth and protect margin when it was more
rationale to do so.
And this underwriting agility has been very typical of our management in the past. It was
good to see a similar story in Loans but we were faster than other in reacting to the
pandemic with good (inaudible) adjustments within our footprint and in our underwriting
processes. And this resulted in some of the best loss outcome in the market. Risk
selection remains our obsession and similarly, the mindset was transfer loans as well, but
we are adopting open banking data to improve underwriting and assess better customers
for aﬀordability that is another win-win for the customer for us. But we're also very
conscious of the necessity to continue to improve operational eﬃciency and increased
speed of service. I will make progress, for example, by tripling total loss claims settled
online almost (inaudible) the time set on those and decreasing the variable cost of
customer service mainly through a non-digital functionalities. It's also rewarding to see
how some of the new best practice are now being piloted in our oversea business. As for
example, scale agile in Italy, where we doubled the number of features released and
reduced by more than 40% passports release and days of cycle.
Moving beyond existing business in Admiral Pioneer, our new venture arm, we launched
the ﬁrst pilot venture in less than six months each. One is tool box providing coverage for
tools for small business in the UK. And this is a small ﬁrst step in the micro SME space, but
we see some potential for better services with the customer. And the other one is Kooalys,
a small ﬂeet insurance business in France. Interesting as this focus merely on small, smart
and green in the future rental ﬂeets. They are both small trial, not expecting to make any
diﬀerent on results this year and not in the next two or three. So I'm referring them here
both as they could make a diﬀerence in the longer term and importantly as they help us
to test the woods for Pioneer and somehow get comfort on our ability to launch new
business in such a short time.

Page 2 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

Solid execution and responsiveness to market conditions are two long-lasting features of
Admiral's history and they will continue to be particularly relevant in the current and next
future context. We are all keen to go back to normality but, fortunately, we are not there
yet.
There are still relevant change in our way starting with the long tail of COVID that continue
to surprise us with further ways and become our job that is predicting risk as diﬃcult as
ever. The FCA pricing reform that will force strong rebalance between new business and
renewal prices and inevitably will cause some price shocks and dislocation of portfolios.
We have prepared for this change and Cristina will talk more about this later but, overall,
this will require from the market a mix of underwriting discipline, ability to read context
and consumer reaction very fast and more complex rating. Another element that the
market will need to manage will be the evolution in the way we work, how embed the
hybrid working but also agile practices in the operating models.

Bloomberg Transcript

To adapt eﬀectively to this change I believe that a strong underlying culture on corporate
identity are key assets. At the core of our execution, it's not like two or three superstar
tracking better or faster decision. It's our people and our culture, and our culture remains
strong. We are among the best place to work worldwide. It's fun because this is -- the
engagement score very high and our staﬀ we feel looked after. And it is a simple as that.
People would like to work in Admiral and that's why they gave their best, and we aim for
this to be true for everybody. No one excluded. So when people talk about diversity and
inclusion, there is a lot of focus on representation of diversity. For us, historically, it has
been entirely on inclusion and inclusion naturally resulted in diversity.
When I joined Admiral, Cristina and myself were two out of four International CEO and
there of us were women. And this was 15 years ago. Now we have 50-50 gender balance
in the Executive Committee and in the Group Board. We don't rest on our laurels. We're
very conscious. We continue to evolve and we've been very focused on increasing talent
in some critical areas. We also decided to fully embrace smart working. Admiral staﬀ who
love the choice to work from home part of their time and when the oﬃce, they will ﬁnd
space that will be redesigned to foster more collaboration and innovation. As in the end,
going through the transformation the glue that keeps everything together is the team
spirit and the willingness to work together.
And with that, let me hand over my teammate our CFO, Geraint Jones.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thanks, Milena. Hello, everyone. I'm going to talk about some of the main features from a
very positive ﬁrst half and look at how the top-line has grown, what's contributed to the
signiﬁcant increase in proﬁt and to ﬁnish, I'll go through the solvency position and cover
the interim dividend or dividends.
To start with the highlights with plenty of green on show here, Proﬁt and earnings per
share were both up very strongly. The pre-tax result was up by three quarters and was in
Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

the middle of the range we pre-announced a few weeks back. Earnings per share was up
by two-thirds, very decent top-line ﬁgures for the ﬁrst half. Notably, double-digit growth in
customers to move past the 8 million mark. Solvency ratio remains healthy and inevitably
with such an increase in proﬁt return on equity for the half was very strong, nearly 70%.
The big increase in the interim dividend and we've conﬁrmed the plan for the proceeds
from the comparison disposal.
Let's get to some of the details, starting with revenue and customer numbers. A pretty
pleasing set of ﬁgures here. Each of our segments has grown in the ﬁrst half of 2021. The
UK Motor business grew customer numbers by very healthy 12% over 5 million new
vehicles added over 12 months. Good retention throughout that period and a very strong
H2 last year were key factors. Turnover in the comparative period was impacted by the
GBP100 million rebate. And so the 9% growth reported here is somewhat ﬂattish.

Bloomberg Transcript

Continued good momentum in UK household 15% more customers and turnover up 20%.
On our International Insurance grew their customer numbers by 14%. There is some
currency movement and pressure on average premium spent turnover growth was a bit
lower. L'olivier in France continues to grow particularly strongly. Customers from the nonUK Motor business is now account for 40% of the Group's total and that measure
continues to increase despite the continued strong growth in the UK Motor business.
Although the Loans business is showing balances down year-on-year as we'll see later
since we restarted writing loans in H2 last year the business has grown quite nicely. All in
all, happy with the H1 top line ﬁgures.
Let's start to look now into the big proﬁt increase. This slide shows the Group income
statement H1 versus H1. And as you see the UK business was the main driver of the
change. That UK result was up by GBP240 million with a strong increase in household
proﬁt driven by higher premiums and a better combined ratio, but particularly a very
large increase in Motor proﬁt which I'll give a bit more detail on shortly.
Our international insurers were basically at break even in the ﬁrst half, slightly worse
results compared to last year. The loss ratio in the comparative period being more
positively impacted by COVID. European insurers reported a lower proﬁt partly on the
back of investments in growth whilst the loss in the US was broadly ﬂat. On the Loans
front, a big drop in the credit-loss provision charge led to an improved results half year on
half year. That provision though remained prudent.
And in the other items an increased share scheme charge was one of the big drivers and
there were also some non-recurring costs for some of the regulatory projects and other
matters. But clearly, the big story here is the UK Motor results. So let's talk a bit more
about that. This slide shows the UK Motor income statement, and as you can see proﬁt
increased from around GBP310 million to GBP530 million and we've highlighted the main
drivers of the change.
Points 1 and 4, higher premiums and lower current period loss ratio just positively
impacted by lockdown earlier in the year are important factors. But clearly points 2 and 3,
the higher reserve releases and much higher proﬁt commission revenue are the key items

Page 4 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

and this slide explains a bit more about what's happening there. On the top, we show the
book loss ratios at the end of the current half year along with the changes in the ratios
since the end of 2020. So for example, the 2019 underwriting years now booked at 73%,
down 3% from the end of 2020.
And on the bottom, we show reserve releases and proﬁt commission split by underwriting
year for H1 this year and H1 last year. What's happened in the ﬁrst half of this year is ﬁrstly
somewhat bigger reductions in the book loss ratios across a number of years. And
secondly, quite a few of those years are now very proﬁtable as you can see with book loss
ratios in the high 60s, low 70s. And those two factors combined to lead ﬁrstly, the bigger
reserve releases notably on the committed share of the business. And secondly, because
of the greater proﬁtability to much higher proﬁt commission as you can see in the green
on the bottom chart.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in summary, there are more points of booked loss ratio movement and each point of
movement is generating more proﬁt. Movements on the back years as always
predominantly related to improved projections for bodily injury claims as Cristina will
touch on later. The 2020 underwriting year is particularly notable, very positive given its
relatively early stage of development and the low book loss ratio is already leading to very
signiﬁcant proﬁt commission being recognized. COVID has, obviously, had a fairly
notable impact there.
There's been no change to the relative level of conservatism overall in the book reserves
compared to the best estimate nor the margin held on the most recent period. As we
noted in the trading activity a few weeks back, it's extremely unlikely that this level of
reserve release and proﬁt commission will be repeated in the second half of this year. And
we also fully expect that our current period loss ratio for the second half will be higher
than the ﬁrst half. Obviously, we are very happy to get into more detail on the UK result
with anyone who needs to.
Moving on now from proﬁts to look at the half year capital position. The top chart here
shows the capital position in terms of the requirement, the surplus and the solvency ratio
just to note that these ﬁgures don't include the capital from the comparison disposal. We
see a GBP55 million increase in the level of surplus moving the solvency ratio up to over
200%. On the waterfall -- on the bottom of this slide, we set out the factors that contribute
to the change. A fairly notable reduction in the capital requirement is partly an unwind the
increase we saw at the end of 2020 related to higher proﬁt commission risk.
A brief update on the internal model. As we spoke about back in March, we've taken
some time to review various aspects of the model. And this has changed the timing of our
application for approval. We'll continue to use the current basis of calculating the capital
requirement and we'll provide updates on progress in due course, but not necessarily
with every results presentation.
We're declaring a large increase in the interim dividend, so let's take a look at that. As you
see here, the current period interim dividend is made up a two parts. The regular
dividend on the ﬁrst half earnings and then the element related to the comparison

Page 5 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

disposal proceeds. The regular part, it's a 115p per share, just over 60% higher than
2020's interim and that increase is broadly consistent with the change in earnings per
share. The payout ratio is 87%, that's in line with the 2020 full year. And then the second
part relates to the proceeds from the disposal of the comparison businesses which
completed earlier in the year. As you can see, we are planning to pay a large majority of
the net proceeds to shareholders as special dividends. The total is GBP400 million and
we will phase the return over three dividends. This interim 2020's ﬁnal and the 2022
interim dividend. And so the ﬁnal payment will be a year after the ﬁrst, and we were
expecting three payments of 46p per share. The reason for the phasing is to smooth the
return and the associated bonuses over 2021 and 2022 rather than pay the whole amount
at once.
Before I wrap up, I would just point you to the reinsurance slide in the back of the
presentation. We are in the process of contracting a new long-term agreement with
Munich Re on reinsurance for the UK business. There'll be a change in the mix between
co-insurance and quota share and improved terms for Admiral. Some high level details
are included there and more to follow with our full year results in March 2022.
A quick summary from me of the ﬁnancials. There is growth across the Group notably, but
not just in the UK Motor business, a very large increase in the ﬁrst half proﬁt driven by
bigger reserve releases, much higher proﬁt commission and a better current period loss
ratio and a very large interim dividend with a healthy capital position maintained.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll pass you now to Cristina to talk about the UK. Over to you, Cristina.

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. It's been a solid half year for the UK Insurance business. Key
highlights, strong growth in our Motor book of 12%, very good loss ratios, both for recent
and past years as you saw in the numbers referred to by Geraint. This is a testimony of our
strong underwriting capabilities as we continue to outperform the market in claims
outcomes.
During the period, we have seen in claims an increase in frequency and a continuation of
the underlying inﬂation trends. And in household, we have experienced good growth and
record proﬁt. The outlook for the future, well, we expect ﬁrstly market prices to increase in
the second half of this year. And from next year due to the FCA pricing reform, we expect
high price increases in new business in Motor and even higher in household.
Also, as Milena said, we continue to be a great company to work for and we have
achieved several awards in this year in our UK Insurance business. These include being
voted Best Company to Work For in terms of staﬀ well-being. Second Best Company to
Work for Women and top ﬁve for [ph]all staﬀ.
Let's start with the strong growth in our multi book. In the market, we saw new business
prices decreasing across the period even the frequency started to increase several
months ago. Admiral reduced new business prices during the lockdown period by
Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

double-digits and we started increasing prices in March this year. So far, we have
increased new business prices by mid-single digit. This means we remain signiﬁcantly
cheaper than before the pandemic.
You can see in our time stock graph that we became very competitive during the last part
of last year but we have decreased our time stock strongly since March. This suggests that
we're putting prices ahead of the market. Some of you might be wondering how we
managed to grow by 12% even putting prices up. Well, explaining this, we need to realize
that most of the growth came from the second half of last year and that during this year,
the growth has mostly come from our renewals. Also, we continued to improve our
operational capabilities and during this period we have a specially improve our digital
oﬀering to our customers. For the second half of the year, we expect limited growth as we
continue to put prices up ahead of the market reﬂecting increases in frequency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, let's move to look at things. Frequency is the main feature during this period and it
is a feature that has had more impact on price changes and I think it will be the one that
has more impact also going forward. As lockdown measures have been relaxing, we have
seen frequency increasing. The good news is that actually frequency has increased less
than what usage. The main reason for this is change in driving behaviors. The most
signiﬁcant one is that we have seen fewer pick hour accidents. In terms of claims inﬂation,
we see a continuation of the underlying trends and in this period, we have seen higher
power costs due to advances in vehicle technology and also an increase in the cost of
used cars. At Admiral, we have also seen slightly higher inﬂation due to COVID, a couple
of examples include waiving access to care workers and cleaning fees at garages.
In terms of large bodily injury claims, we have seen positive development higher than in
other periods. As Geraint shared with you, the main rationale for these include more
positive outcomes from some large settlement and faster speed of settlement as we have
had more capacity due to fewer claims during COVID. If we take a step back and look at
Admiral claims capabilities, I'm very proud to say that Admiral continues to outperform
the market in claims outcomes. As you can see in the graph, our total claims cost is more
than 10% better than the average. Some of the reasons that I would like to highlight for
these are, the very experienced staﬀ that we have in our Claims Department. Also, our
faster capabilities both at settling claims but capturing third parties and this is still
continuing to improve due to our changes in digital capabilities, and quite important is
that we adapt quickly to market changes. An example of this is that we have been able to
improve our fraud savings by 50% following a legal change a few years ago.
And while so many think an improving claim cost actually has a negative impact on
customers' satisfaction, that's not the case with Admiral as 93% of our customers are likely
to renew after a claim. Also, Admiral is particularly strong in the management of bodily
injury claims where we have not a very skilled staﬀ. This cost represent for Admiral a
higher proportion than for the market because we have lower extra loss protection and
would target higher risks.
Moving on to Household, we have also had very strong growth in this business and this
has been helped by strong same-store performance that is we have been decreasing
prices. Also, strong retention. We have managed to increase the gap between Admiral
Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

retention and the market average and multi-cover. The cross-sell of Admiral Household to
new and existing Admiral Motor customers continue to play a signiﬁcant part in our
Household business. Our proﬁts have also increase in the last 12 months. This is due to the
absence of any signiﬁcant weather event, improvements in our claims capabilities, and
also due to corporate as changes in customer behavior has aﬀected our claims mix. When
people stay more at home, we see fewer theft claims and also fewer big escape of water
claims.
To conclude, I would like to talk about our expectations for the next 18 months. But a
disclaimer, it's very hard to make predictions as we can look of uncertainty and many
moving parts. Next slide. When we look at Motor for the second half of the year, I would
expect prices to increase. We have seen strong decreases in the market in Q1 but much
more timid in Q2. The ADI highlight quarter-on-quarter minus 1% reduction in Q2. This
might suggest prices would be ﬂat going forward or will it start to increase. In any case,
we think market prices are going to lag in terms of frequency increases and in terms of
what increase the market will need to compensate for this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also, we think we will see limited addition impact from whiplash because it has already
been priced to some extent and also because it is still and certainly still diﬃcult to know
what the actual impact is going to be on claims costs. For next year, we expect strong
increase in new business prices after the implementation of the FCA reform. We also
expect in retention that there will be a reduction in prices, which will push retention up.
However, the reform also makes cancellations much easier, which we think might push
potential down. And then it's hard to tell how price comparison websites are going to
react to this reform.
In terms of Household during the second quarter of the year, the market has become
more competitive and we think this is going to continue during the second half as some
companies might want to grow the book ahead of the implementation of the FCA pricing
reform. And next year, we expect increases in market new business prices to be even
higher than in Motor as Household book tend to have higher tenure.
That it's for the UK Insurance results. It's been a solid half year with double-digit growth
both in our Motor and our Household book and very good loss ratios underpinned by
strong claims management and strong execution as referred by Milena.
And now over to Constantino to share more about the international results.

Costantino Moretti

{BIO 19792620 <GO>}

Thanks, Cristina, and good morning, everyone. Before diving into the ﬁnancial results, I'd
like to thank our people who have continued to serve our customers with professional
passion and might even in a remote environment.
In this slide some pictures that celebrate our culture and successes such as great place to
work, including Admiral Seguros ranking number one in Spain. Now, let's start looking at
the set of results of our European businesses. The key message is that we have achieved a
Page 8 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

double-digit growth in turnover and in customers despite challenging markets and we
have delivered a proﬁt on a combined basis reiterating our commitment to build longterm sustainable businesses.
I'd like to expand a bit on the diﬀerent geographies. In France, we are facing a very good
momentum and we consciously invested more to achieve our remarkable high doubledigit growth year-on-year both in turnover and in active customers. This is a combined
result of a strong performance in direct acquisition supported by the investments in
digital brand promotions and the softer market, which is less cyclical overall less exposed
to premium ﬂuctuations. In Spain and Italy, we have also achieved a signiﬁcant 15%
customers growth although lower than in France, but we have delivered good
underwriting results comparable to a year ago despite more challenging markets with
average premium fell due to less demand and high competition both driven by COVID.

Bloomberg Transcript

Stepping back from the details of the various countries and looking again at the big
picture. If we compare these results with the 2019 one, removing the majority of COVID
impact, we see a combined ratio that is slightly improved with an overall customers
growth close to 30%. To wrap up on the European businesses, a positive set of results in a
context of continued investments in growth in competitive markets. We remain conﬁdent
on the long-term trajectory and then should the focus on the risk selection, digital
services, and expanding distribution will continue to oﬀer signiﬁcant opportunities.
Moving on to Elephant and to the United States markets now. The key message is that
Elephant continues to strengthen the business fundamentals and therefore to focus on
prioritizing bottom line improvements against top-line growth. Comparing these half-term
results with the 2019 one, we see a clear improvement with a 30% loss reduction although
turnover has been pretty ﬂat as a consequence of a prudent approach to growth,
expensive acquisition market where costs increased by 30% in the equivalent period and
softer COVID impact with the claims frequency return at close to normal level since
several months.
I'd like to brieﬂy touch on the six months policy. It is now and why we have rolled it out
this product and we have already seen some clear beneﬁt on conversion and lifetime
value. The six months policy gives us clearly more agility to respond to claims frequency
and inﬂation changes while oﬀering a compelling product widely appreciated by the US
customers. Expanding now on the expense ratio, notably, we are seeing investments in
digital and automation are paying oﬀ the eﬀorts with operational cost per customers
going down double-digit year-on-year. Finally, it is worth mentioning the new initiatives
on distribution like agencies and partnerships that are delivering healthy and cost eﬃcient
growth though still at a small scale.
To conclude on Elephant, while recognizing that the growth is becoming more expensive
raising the bar of the challenges in the future, I feel conﬁdent on the direction of travel
and the progress made in the last semester.
Thanks. I'll pass over back to Milena to talk about our Loans business.

Page 9 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Costi. We are very pleased that during this period, the Loans book has returned
to grow while strengthening underlying fundamentals and with no signiﬁcant change in
the forms over the period. The graph at the top show new business evolution by quarter.
As mentioned before, you can see that the business reacted quickly to the pandemic, but
in the last quarter we were back at the COVID levels.
We had a modest loss of GBP1.9 million in the back book performance than initially
anticipated. Scott and his team increased provisions as upon economic uncertainty big
and reduced provisions [ph]as per the economic improve as you can see on the chart on
the right. And the Loans business will maintain a conservative provisioning approach as
we look ahead in line with our prudent culture. Another important element to note here is
that our strategy remains the same as it was pre-COVID but the fundamentals of the
business are stronger today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over the last year or so, we have built on our competitive advantage, improved digital
capability and product for our customers. Our risk selection is also reﬁne and how we use
more data and the new pricing engine. We also continue to build scale to achieve
expense eﬃciency ensuring that the business is a highly scalable operation for the future.
Our guidance for Loans balance remains on track for GBP500 million, GBP560 million in
2021 and if no further shock in the macroeconomic environment, we expect an improved
Loans loss for the full year in the range of GBP3 million to GBP6 million and our loan
business to become signiﬁcant and sustainable contributor to Group proﬁt over the
longer term.
Speaking about long-term, sustainability in ESG are very rightly so recently taking more
and more space in corporate strategies and the Board. We are strongly committed and
we are adapting and adopting new best practices. And it's fair to say that this has been
always in our DNA from the day Admiral was set up my Henry and David.
The customer and the people metrics that you see on this slide are metrics that we always
lead every day. The best value we can create for our customer and the ease to oﬀer more
aﬀordable options for more people and with good experience and looking back, we have
been the most competitive motor insurer in the UK and one of the most inclusive with a
large footprint and we did provide on average a great service also in the moment of
through the claim as Cristina noted before.
This focus on doing what is right for the long-term over the short term is embedded in our
culture and it is reinforced by our remuneration system with diﬀused staﬀ shareholding
across all the Group at every level that ensures strong alignment of interest also with our
investors. And recently, it has been recognized with good ESG rating as well. We're also
very committed to play a positive role in our community with charitable initiatives and we
understand our responsibility on climate change. We are already using renewable energy
and oﬀset the carbon footprint, as well as supporting project such as the size of wind
resource and tap for trees to protect forest in Kenya, where plants mutually (inaudible).

Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

We're conscious that climate change is a Navy where we all need to step up and do more.
Our ambition is to be net zero by 2040 at latest and to achieve that, in the next 10 years,
we aim to reduce emission by 50% and the next year across Scope 1 and 2. There are
many initiatives in place across our operations and investments and we'll talk more about
these at year end. But beyond the three scopes we can have -- where we can have a truly
positive impact is the evolution of our product and services.
We are waiting underwriting more electric vehicles than our core market share and were
growing this portfolio at very fast pace in the last year, and oﬀering features as battery and
charging equipment product. Becoming better service providers and on underwriters of
greener asset is where we can have the greatest impact to support our community to
make better greener choices.
In summary, a strong set of results and continued growth across the business is a
reﬂection of good execution and strong foundations. And a commitment to continue to
do what is right for the future for our customers, our employees and our communities.
Thank you very much for listening and we are now happy to answer your questions for
which we will be joined by Scott Cargill our Loans CEO. Thank you

Questions And Answers
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

(Operator Instructions) We will start today with some questions from the webcast.

A - Marisja Kocznur

{BIO 20556893 <GO>}

Good morning, we have three questions from the webcast from Alex Evans. The ﬁrst
question is from the reserve releases, it seems like you've been quite conservative
releasing from the 2020 year compared to what you reported in the ﬁrst half of 2020. Is
that a fair assessment and it is down to [ph]zero gain sentiment at the moment?
The second question, you mentioned retention remains high, but we think you put true
price increases higher than the market. What is driving this?
And the third question, as the revenue per vehicle continues to decline, is it possible to
give some color on what would the organic and what is COVID related. I'll hand over to
Milena.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you, Marisja, and good morning again, everybody. Geraint, do you want to take the
ﬁrst question and then Cristina the following two.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Page 11 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Yeah. Will do. Thanks, Milena. So I think the ﬁrst question actually relates to COVID, and
so what we saw in the ﬁrst half of 2020 was we moved the -- minus one year. So the 2019
underwriting you had down by 10 points and in the ﬁrst half of '21, we moved the 2020
year minus one year down by 3 points. So obviously at the end of 2019, that was sort of
pre-pandemic loss ratio time and when we were updating the loss ratio for the '19 at the
end of the ﬁrst of the half '20, obviously we were into the pandemic and so the big
reduction there was really quite a lot that was related to COVID. So I think that's probably
more of a COVID impact. We've seen generally big moves as we see in the presentation
on the book loss ratios in the ﬁrst half of this year, but the overall reserve margin, as I said,
remains ﬂat. There is a prudent margin on 20, that of minus one year as we would only
expect to this point and we also see movement to the best estimate for 2022 to improve
as well. (Multiple Speakers) to Cristina.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Geraint. The second question was related to retention and price increases
and, Alex, important to note that so far, we have been increasing prices only focusing on
new business and therefore retention continues partly because of prices, but also partly
because of improvements in our operations and digital capabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of other revenue, there are two key factors that explained the decrease. One is
related to COVID, which is a reduction in the income at claims stage proportional to the
reduction in the number of claims. The second impact is a reduction in the margin of the
Motor Legal Protection product, and this is explained by an increase in the cost due to the
whiplash reform. Thank you. We can now move on to the next question.

Operator
The next question is a telephone question from the line of Freya Kong with Bank of
America. Please go ahead.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. I have three questions, please. So, ﬁrstly on the favorable prior year
development in bodily injury. You said that you don't currently expect this to be repeated
in second half. What has driven the more positive outcomes in BI settlements in H1? Is
there any observable trend here? And in terms greater capacity for your team to
accelerate settlements, do you think we could see more of this in H2?
My second question is that you raise prices ahead of peers in H1, which saw some
slowdown and go worse this year. Do you think that market pricing has turned now and
do you think your relative competitiveness could improve again in H2 or will you continue
to hike prices ahead of the market?
And my third question is just on the claims inﬂation. Could you please comment on your
outlook for severity from here? How much of this has been included speciﬁc and how
much is underlying and is underlying tracking in line with your expectations? Thanks.

Page 12 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you very much. And I think, Cristina, those are all yours.

FINAL

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. In terms of our bodily injury claims, we have seen higher releases than in
previous period coming from positive settlement. Two key reasons behind this. One is a
few positive settlements in some very large claims, which have a signiﬁcant impact here.
One is an acceleration. We might see some of these continue in the future, but not to the
same extent, that is our view.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second one was related to new business increasing in the market and you asked has the
market turned? Well, if you look at the ABI quarter-on-quarter, price increases or sorry
price decreases for Q1 and Q2, in the ﬁrst quarter, the ABI was talking about minus 5; and
the second, they were talking about minus 1 -- sorry, 7 and minus 1. This is an indication of
-- that we might see price increases in the second half of the year. Hard to predict as there
have been very diﬀerent behaviors by diﬀerent players. In the case of Admiral, we will
continue to monitor the trends and frequency in claims inﬂation, our own loss ratio
evolution and then decide what to do with prices. But so far, we have increased prices
and we think that would be the -- we will see that in the second half too.
And the third question was related to claims inﬂation, the underlying trends around
severity. We have talked about 3% to 5% in the past and we continue with that
expectation in the future. There were some pressure on inﬂation and COVID speciﬁc areas
for example trade higher because claims took longer to settle or around waiving excess
for care workers. Some of those are -- or most of those are now coming down. So in the
future, we would expect a continuation of the three to ﬁve separate inﬂation.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Bateman with Berenberg. Please go
ahead.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. The ﬁrst question is on growth. You continue to perform really
excellently in the UK Motor market, that's why the market well. But I guess where do you
see opportunities to continue to grow i.e. sort of what parts of the market and would there
be any headwinds to you continuing to grow your market share?
And the second question is on the diversiﬁcation of earnings. So UK Motor side, I'm just
trying to think what the operating proﬁt made up with the company looks like in ﬁve
years' time i.e. how big this home International and Loans look in terms of contribution to
earnings. I know that when you go to UK Motor business of the period when you really

Page 13 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

built up reserving strength there. Is that something that you'll -- that you are doing
currently in the International business? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I think your ﬁrst question was on growth. I'm going to just have a
general comment that we are committed to continue to grow our business in the diﬀerent
geography in insurance as well as investing more in diversiﬁcation as you mentioned but
the impact of COVID has been diﬀerent in diﬀerent part and made a bit more
complicated to sustain the growth rate of last year in International. But despite that, we
still have very healthy growth in Europe as being a bit more complicated than in US.
Cristina, do you want to expand a bit more on growth in the UK and then I come back on
diversiﬁcation?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. I'm going to focus on UK Motor and, yes, two parts. In the second half of this year, we
expect limited growth. However, the rate of growth is going to depend a lot on what the
rest of the market has to prices. You have seen in our graph how our time stop has really
come down very quickly in just a few months. So from now on, it will depend on what the
market does. But, overall, limited.

Bloomberg Transcript

From next year, we expect high increases coming from January continuing during the
year. And it is a bit hard to predict how the diﬀerent players are going to respond but
maybe there is an opportunity further down the line to continue growing.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

And on the diversiﬁcation, the reason behind our diversiﬁcation strategy is partially
changed in mobility in the future. And it's increasing resilience core business and
diversifying to make sure that we remain a very -- we will continue to grow in the future.
There is an element of building on our strength and what we can deliver to customers.
That usually is competitive product, but also I would say possibly more important is to
provide better proposition to customers. So give them more product where we can
provide good service at good price, engage with customer, enforce our relationship with
them.
So with that in mind, our priority remains expanding the product proposition to our
existing customers, existing geography and that's the main angle we take at debt. And if
you think about this, there are two elements. There are some of our existing
diversiﬁcations that are performing well that we are accelerating, like for example housing
loans. We're pleased with the progress. We think we can create some special for the
future and therefore we are willing to grow them faster and to continue to -- and to ensure
they become a material part of our business in the future even more material than today.
And then there is an element of testing new product, a new proposition and with debt in
mind that we set up an incubator of new venture pioneer in the UK last year. And as
mentioned before, we are starting now to test the wheel and we launch the ﬁrst couple of
initial product.
Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

Another angle to the rectiﬁcation of product is of course also try to understand this
change in mobility side trying to be in the terms of how the customers are going, how
their habits are changing. For example, we have bigger this company that looks after no
standard insurance and make sure that we will continue to evolve our motor insurance
proposition as well as people change the way they move around.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

That makes sense. I guess if I had to push you a little bit ﬁve years down the line, what
portion of your operating proﬁt is made up of UK Motor and what is from kind of other
revenue channels?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. It is a good question. The way we look at the business is we look at them in a
relatively independent way and try to optimize the rate of growth and the margin as we
go depending on the face of the cycle and the potential of the business. If you look at the
next ﬁve years, the part of the business that may have a more material impact as well at
the moment on impact. I would likely to be International Insurance and Household and
Loans. Everything else I discussed before is more likely to have an impact in a diﬀerent
time horizon somewhere in ﬁve year to 10-year horizon.
How much international housing loans are going to be? I think we gave some indication
about our ambition on International Insurance and we made some progress in line with
that expectation and it is diﬃcult to say for loans because there are some external factors
as well. But as I mentioned before, we are very positive about both Loans and Household
and we are growing that base. And so you may expect it to be a more material part of the
top line and bottom line.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of James Shuck with Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everybody. Three questions from me. Firstly on the commutations
which were up quite materially year-on-year. I noticed that in relation to the reserves that
were actually commuted, the level of commutations has gone up so quite signiﬁcantly. So
I think that GBP350 million of reserves, we've have seen GBP118 million of commutations.
If you can just explain that diﬀerence to me please, that would be helpful.
The second question is around the 2021 book-to-loss ratio, which is coming in at 77%. You
usually provide a bridge between the book loss ratios overtime year-on-year. So I think
could you provide a bridge between 69% to 77% in 2020, 2021 in terms of frequency and
severity, please?

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

And the ﬁnal question, you mentioned that you were seeing larger book-to-loss ratio than
across recent years than usual and that's been driven by the VI side of things, but we're
not seeing that on the ultimate scale. So if you do just explain the diﬀerential between the
two, please. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Geraint, are you happy to answer the ﬁrst one and then the second one as well?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

(Technical Diﬃculty) to repeat the ﬁrst one. The ﬁrst one is about commutations. But ﬁrstly,
the size of the release on the share of the business. It was originally reinsured. And then
secondly good spotting in the detail of the size of the reserve that we assumed as a result
of the commutations in the ﬁrst half of this year was larger. The second one is slightly
easier. So the commutations that we executed in the ﬁrst half of this year we're kind of in
line with expectations. That was sort of contracts that came up for commutations in the
ﬁrst half. The reason is the bigger numbers because the years on the reserves are just
bigger.
So more recently we've been bigger in size than the reserves that we've assumed as a
result of those commutations that I guess were being larger. So there is nothing really
material to it than growth. And the ﬁrst question, which is the bigger contribution to proﬁt
in the current period from reserve releases on the share of the business that was originally
ensured. That's larger because ﬁrstly, a bigger loss ratio movements in the ﬁrst half as I
said on Slide 13. And secondly, there is bigger loss ratio movements are coming on more
recent years where we can move to the reinsurance of the 4 points on 2018, the 3 points
of 2017. The reinsurance is largely being commuted on those years. And so we're seeing
quite a big contribution from our releases on that part of the business. So, those would be
the reasons there. James, can you repeat the second question? Sorry, I missed a part on
that one.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yes, sure. So it's the book-to-loss ratio H1 for H1 2021 which is you've opened at 77%. You
normally provide a bridge between the book-to-loss ratio year-on-year. What do you want
to do that with the opening one or the most recent one? But I think normally you do it
from the most recent one. So it is a 69% book-to-loss ratio of 2020 in the open now for
2021 at 77%. Could you just provide the bridge between that in terms of frequency and
severity, please?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

I'm not sure we're going to. Normally, we often or sometimes provide a bridge of the
accident year ultimate loss ratio. But we don't normally bridge the book-to-loss ratio. The
reasons to be the same I think. We should obviously increase in frequency and underlying
increase severity as well. But there are another numbers on the top of mine -- top of my
head, sorry, James. But we don't normally bridge the book-to-loss.

Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

The frame is slightly diﬀerently then. Just could you give more insight into the 77%
opening loss book in 2021 versus what it was in 2020?

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Well, I think on 2021, we expect the end ﬁnal ultimate loss ratio for 2021 which of course
would include the second half of 2021 is likely to be known higher than 2020 which is an
underwriting year that's going to beneﬁt very materially from COVID and reduce
frequency. So the stock initial pick on 2021 I think reﬂects our view that 2021 ultimately will
be higher loss ratio year than 2020.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Sure. Okay. That's helpful. And then just on the -- the other question just on the larger
book-to-loss ratio developments. We don't see that same pattern coming through in the
ultimate which has been revised down to a greater extent than previously.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I think that was a fair observation. What you actually see if we extended that -- the
ultimate loss ratio chart back over all the years, you do see somewhat greater
improvement in the overall best estimate reserve in the ﬁrst half. My view, James, it's not
that apparent from the loss -- from the chart partly masked by rending and we haven't
assumed over the years as well as these some developments on [ph]LDUs which Cristina
referred to earlier which you normally see later on after these years but it is quite settled.
But there is a bigger improvement in that business in the ﬁrst half than usual.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Risha with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Risha Singh

{BIO 20804715 <GO>}

Hi, thank you for taking my questions. I've got two. So the ﬁrst one is on UK car. You
mentioned that much of the growth in customers in the ﬁrst half came from the renewals
rather than new business. Are you able to provide a split between the renew and new
business growth and how do you expect that growth to develop over the remainder of
the year?
And the second one is on international car. You mentioned seeing a strong customer
growth in Spain and Italy of 15% year-on-year despite the competitive market conditions.
What's driving that growth and how are you thinking about the outlook for the rest of '21
and then going into next year as well?

Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you. We don't normally provide the precise split, but Cristina, maybe you want to
add some color around it on the ﬁrst question and then Costi answer on the second one?

FINAL

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. As you said, Milena, we don't give this is split. But I think we're going to see in the
second half of the year a continuation of what we saw in the ﬁrst in the sense that we don't
expect new business sales to grow versus last year. Actually, we think it's going to be a
very competitive market with some players trying to gain share ahead of the introduction
of the FCA reform. So no growth at all coming from new business and possibly continue
to have very good retention.

A - Costantino Moretti

{BIO 19792620 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, again. So in Spain and Italy, there are similar stories. So the
strong growth has been primarily driven by good performance in direct acquisition and
expansion towards more traditional channels. So distribution through brokers and agents.
And about the future outlook, I think it will depend also on the price level. As I
commented, there is high competition in those markets. So far, we have been able to beat
the competition to deliver a good growth, and we will continue to with the same focus we
have had so far and -- but it will also depend on the market decisions on prices.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question comes the line of Nick Johnson with Numis. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Hi. Do you hear me.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Yes, we can.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Great, thanks. And so the ﬁrst question is on the decrease in UK Motor ancillary revenue.
As you mentioned more business has been completed digitally and that's had an impact.
To what extent has been ongoing trends in digital sales continue to increase? Are you
seeing opportunities to improve? Add-on take-up rate as digital sales journey is reﬁned
and that's the ﬁrst question.
And then second question is on UK vehicle growth. Just wondering how much of vehicle
growth is due to an increasing proportion of customers with multi-car i.e. what is the
underlying customer growth rate and just to a signiﬁcant opportunity for multi-car growth
within the existing customer base. Thank you.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}
Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Thank you. Given they are both UK Insurance, Cristina, do you want to take them?

FINAL

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. On additional income as you said there is pressure when these sales are done online.
It's something that we have been seen for a number of years. We launched a few months
ago our Tier proposition because we think this is a better way for customers to
understand our product and it's easier -- it's also easier for them, the customer journey
and by the ancillaries. So we launched this. This is still on a test mode, but the initial data,
it's very positive and we think that is the best way to continue selling ancillaries online.
However, we think there might still be pressure in the future.
The second question around vehicle growth and what percentage is multi-car. We don't
want tend to -- we don't give this is split, but we're very -- we're doing well on our multicar and multi-cover proposition. It's an area that we continue to enhance and improve and
our customers react very well to it because we provide very strong discounts and a much
easier journey.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question comes the line of Will Hardcastle with UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Two questions. The ﬁrst one is how is the dynamic between the
retention in the new business volume change from the January to June? It's the six month
period progressed and related on, are you still seeing a net beneﬁt in volumes from
higher retention and higher new business or has it slowed down somewhat?
And the second question is regarding the large BI settlements in the favorable outcome. I
guess what would be the calendars suggesting that if you had a higher number of staﬀ in
claims management and this could actually result in further claims settling quicker. I'm
trying to think what this could in fact be maybe a bit more than just a one-oﬀ or is this is
just a one-oﬀ? Thanks.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Cristina, do you want to take this?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes, of course. So when we look at the ﬁrst half of the year, what has happened is that
when we compare our pro to new business sales versus the previous period it's been very
ﬂat. Remember that in Q2 last year and specially around May, June, which is the
opportunity of strong growth, when it comes to renewals they come from a larger base.

Page 19 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

So when you look at the number of customers that have renewed into total versus the
previous period, there has been growth.
You asked how do we see this continue in the second half of the year. Again, as
mentioned, I don't think we're going to see growth in new business sales. It will depend
not just on what we do, but what the market does. But in our view, the market may still be
very competitive. I think we might see price increases in the market, but possibly not to
the extent that they should be, in our view, and therefore we might still be very
competitive.
Your last question was around bodily injury settlements and whether having more staﬀ
might help. What has happened during this period is that we had much fewer number of
large BI claims coming in. So, yes, it did allow the team to maybe close faster some of the
pending claims we have. We review our staﬀ levels and we're comfortable at where we
are. That means that we might do things with a bit more staﬀ, but we don't expect
signiﬁcant changes in the future.

Operator
The next question comes from line of Faizan Lakhani with HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, can you hear me?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Yes, we can.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

Just a few questions from me. First, congratulations on good set of results. First question
was on the Italian price on the pricing power from the website on motor insurance. What
is the implication? Do you have any update on that front?
The second question is on the Household insurance book. My understanding is that
you've beneﬁted from from COVID and the fact that people stay more at home and claims
are lower on that front and also relatively benign weather stripping that out. What is the
underlying possibility in the Household book?
And the third question is on the change in the reinsurance structure. My understanding is
that the quota share reinsurance tends to be more proﬁtable, but given the fact the bookto-loss ratio in recent years had been fairly low, is that beneﬁt more muted or could we
see a sizable increase of the base going forward.
And last question if I may is just on large BI. Your peers mentioned similar trends on large
BI. How much of this is GTA change in the type of accident we are having versus no -- your
own idiosyncratic improvement in your book?
Page 20 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Thank you for your question. On the -- on the investigation that you referred to
in Italy is the market wise phenomenon involving a lot of company and price comparison
side. It is ongoing but there is no conclusion and it's really, really early to comment. Of
course, we are fully collaborative with the authority. But it's really early stage.
The second question I think, Cristina, was for you.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you for the congrats. You were asking about the underlying proﬁtability of the
Household book. It's a bit too early to comment. This is still a relatively young business
and it's growing a lot. Some of the key trends that will stay is ﬁrst, when you look at the
size of the renewals book transition business, we see that it's growing every year, and that
deﬁnitely helps proﬁtability in Household. Given the cost of acquisition versus the
premium, it's very expensive to grow. So the bigger the renewal book, the bigger our
proﬁtability.
Second, we have been -- every year, we have been improving our data and our claims
capability and that translates into better loss ratio. So improving underlying trends, we're
positive about the future but too early to comment what is the stable combined ratio at
this stage

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Cristina. So, can you remind me the third question?

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

It is regarding to the reinsurance structure and the proﬁtability of the change in the
structure that's bigger now.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Perfect. Geraint, do you want to take this one?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Yes. There is some details in the back of the pack but main impact I think we talk about
now is the change in the mix between co-insurance and quota shares, the 30% that's
underwrites currently is co-insurance will split from 2022 to 20% co-insurance and 10%
quota share. I'm not going to share the operates like the rest of all quota share contracts,
the current 38%. There are some details around the back of the pack. So that's -- sharing
those will change.
In terms of the co-insurance will also improve and we'll try and disclose as much as we
can on that with our full-year results in March. Overall, is quite notable improvement in
proﬁtability to Admiral.

Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

FINAL

Would the impair -- would the impairment possibility to be as signiﬁcant (inaudible) bookto-loss ratios are quite low right now and that with the co-insurance should be quite
helpful itself as well or in the short term. (Multiple speakers) with the impact less
(inaudible). Yes, and then maybe acceleration long-term.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

I think the outlook for the near term is that the -- some of the recent years, as you can see
the book-to-loss ratio is very low there into the top tranches of the proﬁt commission
structure on that current insurance. And so we will continue to be proﬁtable as those
years' released their loss ratio. That's the ultimate position. So because of near-term
outlook. The proﬁtability on those open years is still positive. And then as the contract
changes which only takes eﬀect from 2022 underwriting year, but also changes the share
of the proﬁt that we take from that underwriting year was not certain at this point to
comment on how that will feed through. So that will impact years post 2022 and year to
come.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Your last question was around the large BIs and whether we see a fundamental change in
the type of accident. Yes, there have been some changes especially do we look
completed, for example, we saw less -- lots of BIs coming from between driving on a late
Friday or certainly night. We saw also basically if you look down last year when the
weather was excellent, we saw many more people being injured, motorist or pedestrian
to people when they were with the bike. And also we saw less number of passengers in a
car. So, you didn't see as many accidents with ﬁve even six people on a car, but those are
changes that impacted period mostly and we don't see a change in the underlying trends
for the future and neither we see a fundamental change in on the cost of this BIs. It's just
diﬀerent causes for the claim.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now turn it back over to the webcast questions.

A - Marisja Kocznur

{BIO 20556893 <GO>}

We have two questions from Anthony Young. The ﬁrst one, both related to UK Motor
pricing. First one is what is the biggest risk you'll be to prevent pricing momentum in the
second half. And the second one is, Cristina, you mentioned maybe some pricing
volatility post implementation of FCA pricing remedies. Could you elaborate and what
would prevent you from increasing higher new business prices after January 2022?
Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you, Marisja. Cristina?

FINAL

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. The ﬁrst question is around pricing momentum in the second half. Two main ones.
One is external. If we have a third wave or shall we say third or fourth lockdown period or
any signiﬁcant market changes that would deﬁnitely have an impact on prices. But the
second more likely one is basically competitors appetite for growth. I think there are some
companies that might take the opportunity to grow ahead of the implementation of the
FCA pricing reform or other companies that might look at the reserves and how they have
a strengthened in the previous period and may take the opportunity to grow.
In the case of Admiral, we tend to look at that or look at our prices trying to optimize what
we think are going to be a trend in the next following months. So in the next 12 months
following and that's what we're going to be looking at.

Bloomberg Transcript

Your second question was around volatility pricing -- in prices from next year. First, I think
it's important to highlight that in Admiral we -- I think starting today, we were planning to
increase prices at new business and reduce prices at renewals that I think it's going to be
the trend in every company in the market. Diﬀerent volatilities because some companies
might have further strategies. For example, they might launch products and new business
like renewals, which have diﬀerent feature. They might use diﬀerent challenge -- sorry,
diﬀerent channels, because the FCA reform looks at products and channel as diﬀerent.
You might also have companies, especially in the household arena where new business
prices need to increase a lot to compensate for a big back book and also to look at
compensate for the relative diﬀerence between new business and renewal terms.
So as you can see, it's really going to depend on the kind of mix of the diﬀerent players,
but just to reiterate, in the case of Admiral, we will be rational and we will increase prices
at new business and reduce in renewals.

A - Marisja Kocznur

{BIO 20556893 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question from the webchat is from Henry Heathﬁeld. Two questions.
What should be and what is the appetite going forward to acquire customers on price
comparison size versus direct to yourself. And the second question has the sales in
Penguin Portals had an impact on your ability to acquire customers? If not, why not?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you, Marisja. So in terms of active item distribution channel, price comparison side
are by far our dominant channel in almost every market in which we operate. Maybe I
think excluded and we expect this to continue to be the case. On the vast majority of the
private car insurance bus to price comparison site in the UK. It's a diﬀerent situation in
International, less extent but still a predominant channel for that ex player. And we like
them because they are a great proposition to customer, but also because they like this
Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

FINAL

pricing both competitive but also pricing sophistication that we think that plays well our
skill.
So, and yes, we don't see diﬀerence in results between owning or not owning price
comparison side also because also when we own them we also manage the business then
independently. Historically, we liked to have price comparison site because we create the
distribution channel in some cases and that was as I mentioned before, a distribution
channel that was great to us and also because we had a good understanding of our main
distribution channel. But in terms of speciﬁc results and quote on conversion that doesn't
make any diﬀerence.
In UK in particular, the market is very mature. There are several large player and the
business is quite stable. As Cristina mentioned, there may be some change in terms of the
diﬀerent growth given from the FCA pricing reform but that's a bit early to comment. Of
course also try to track customer directly and making sure that we have a good direction
is also important but price comparison side by far dominant a bit less the case for and
also sorry multi is very important. So we do have a diﬀerent product and we do invest a lot
in trying to sell that into more product with our existing customers.It's a bit less
predominant international insurance cost if you want to add insurance.
Costi, I don't know if you want to add something -- some color on the international.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Costantino Moretti

{BIO 19792620 <GO>}

Yes, Milena. I echo what you have said are less predominant than in the UK, but are still
very -- a very important source of business for us, in particular in Europe. That being said, I
think that we do have an appetite to continue to grow our businesses as we need more
scale and so we have decided to diﬀerentiate the source of growth for our businesses in
particular in the more stagnant market like Italy and Spain. So, still a very dominant -- a
very important channel for us. But we are also keen to open more opportunities for
growth for us.

Operator
The next question is a follow-up from the line of Will Hardcastle with UBS. Please go
ahead.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for the follow-up. It's a quick one on solvency. If I look at the half year last year
and the half year this year, the SCR is the same despite very sizable growth in UK Motor,
Household, International business. Just really trying to understand what the moving part
share, what the oﬀset share were in order to maintain that pluse? Thanks.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you. Geraint?.

Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. There's a couple of things going on, Will, in the sort of last year, which means that it
appears it's plus half year on half year but is down obviously from the end of the full year
to the half year '21. What we see is that the insurance business has grown so the top-line is
a bit high, not dramatically higher, premiums have not as much as customers thus driven
an increase the lowest business is down half year on half year so that has brought it back
down a bit.
And as I think as we talked about before, the outlook for proﬁtability, which impacts the
capital requirement is lower, and looking forward to the next 12 months at the end of
June, '21 and it was what we looked towards 12 months at the end of June '20. So that
means that would oﬀset as well. So all those things taken into account means basically a
ﬂat position half year on half year down from full year to half year. It's quite a few moving
parts as well.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Thanks,

Operator
The next question is a follow-up from the line of James Shuck with Citi. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi, thanks for taking my follow-up. Apologies for this one but IFRS 17, Geraint, just
interested and they will implications that might have for you because you've historically
reserved very conservatively and oﬀer -- much closer to best estimate which has all sorts
of implications in terms of any volatility and potentially solvency needs. So just elaborate
on the thoughts on that would be helpful.
Secondly on the FCA pricing reforms. As the new business increases pricing in order to
generate the same returns as we ﬂash through the market impact from the FCA reforms
and it will back out the kind of renewal rate increases of the past. Are you able to give any
insight into what the potential earnings impacts might be for you as we move into 2022
and whether there is any oﬀsetting impact on the proﬁt commission and perhaps
commutations.
And the ﬁnal question on -- the third question is just around the ultimate development. So
historically they developed very favorably in the past. I think it's my question before, we're
not seeing quite the same positive development at this point. Do you still develop -expect the ultimate to develop favorably? And if so would it be less than they have done
in the past? Thank you.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Geraint, do you want to start to take the ﬁrst one?

Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, IFRS 17, a lot were going on, obviously, in the background, big theme on that and
implementation of that we'll talk more to the market. I think it's 2022 on the likely
implications of that how our results likely to look into that new standard, which also takes
eﬀect from 2023.
There's nothing in the standard that prevents the company from taking a prudent and
cautious approach to reserving in the accounts. I don't expect us to keep on doing that.
We think that works well for us and well for the shareholders as well. I think what you
deﬁnitely will see is more transparency on the book position in the accounting relative to
the best estimates (inaudible) and things like that and I think it's very clear or becoming
very clear that the way that the accounts look and the way the proﬁt ﬂows will obviously
be quite diﬀerent, KPIs will be diﬀerent and so we'll need to spend a bit of time getting
used to how our results we got reported from thereon. But more of that I think in 2022
and that coming into eﬀect.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Sorry. Yes, Cristina, do you want to answer the second one?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. The question was around the impact of the FCA reforms on our earnings and related
KPIs. I think it's important to highlight that the market, in general, tends to be very rational
and tends to pass any of these changes in the market, especially proﬁtability to
customers.
A few years ago, we had a change in the Ogden discount rate and there was a very clear
movement by all the market passing everything to customers. So I think it will take some
time to fully understand the impact of the FCA reforms. But I expect the market to be
rational and pass these to customers to keep with the similar level of overall proﬁtability.
I think it's deﬁnitely too early to comment on any impact beyond this.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you, Cristina. Geraint, you want to comment on the ultimate solution?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Yeah. What we typically see is that the most recent years of the ultimate loss ratio shops
will tend to improve over time as some of the conservatism that we built into those
numbers early on, obviously, comes out over time as we get more certain over the
outcome. There is nothing I think that particularly changes our view but that should
continue into the future. Cristina talked about it. We mentioned some acceleration of
settlement a big injury claims during the ﬁrst half, but I think we've been pretty cautious in
recognizing that in our patents going forward. So I don't expect a material change. I think
we should expect those more in recent years to continue to improve. There will be
change.
Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. That's very helpful. If I can just circle back on the FCA earnings impact just
conceptually, I mean, do you agree that should be some earnings headwinds two year as
the new products start to -- start to price through and you just need to assess those at this
stage. I understand what you're saying about a rational market. This is mathematically one
might expect some earnings headwinds from that.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

This is a cyclical market. We think 2020 and the ﬁrst half of '21 are particularly good years.
So possibly we're looking at 2022 year that is going to be more challenging because of
the unwinding of the discounts due to COVID claims inﬂation and also because of the
FCA. So, yes, I believe in 2022 is going to be a more diﬃcult year that we will all learn and
understand more what the impacts are. So do I believe there are going to be headwinds
because of the FCA? I think in this market, what really matters is how every player is in
relation to the other players. I might be diﬀerent optimistic and I think we're in a good
position because we have a healthy book. We have customers that shop on a very regular
basis and we have one of the largest renewals book.
So I'm conﬁdent that we are in a strong position. We have a strong underwriting
capabilities which are going to be more important. But are there going to be headwinds
in 2022? Yes, for a number of reasons. And unless the market acts rational and increased
prices, there maybe even bigger headwinds.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen -- sorry.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Sorry. Just before we close, I just would like to take a second to thank all the staﬀ for the
incredible work during the year that was deﬁnitely challenging. They've done a fantastic
job and it's great relief to be able to share a record dividend with all our staﬀ in this half
year. So thank you, everybody.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for joining. You may
now disconnect. Goodbye.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Goodbye, everybody.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
Page 27 of 28



personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-11

Page 28 of 28

