Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Abigail Mukhuba, Financial Director
Heinie Werth, Chief Executive Officer, Sanlam Emerging Markets, Executive Director
Jurie Strydom, Chief Executive Officer, Life and Savings
Karl Socikwa, Group Executive, Market Development
Mlondolozi Mahlangeni, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Actuary
Paul Hanratty, Group Chief Executive Officer
Robert Roux, Chief Executive Officer, Sanlam Investment Group
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Rowan Williams-Short
Warwick Bam

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Karl Socikwa

{BIO 4961412 <GO>}

Good morning, and a warm welcome to the 2021 Sanlam Group Interim Financial Results
Announcement. My name is Karl Socikwa. I'm Group Executive for Market Development
and Sustainability. Today, leading the charge in the results announcement is our Group
CEO, Mr.Paul Hanratty; and our Group Finance Director, Ms.Abigail Mukhuba. We are
coming to you virtually, so from the studio here in Midrand. And so the usual hygiene
announcements will not be necessary this morning.
So without further ado, I'd like to hand over to Mr.Hanratty to lead us through the
presentation. Thank you.

Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Karl, thank you very much, indeed, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and
welcome to our 2021 interim results presentation. I'm here in the studio, as Karl said, with
Abigail Mukhuba, our Chief Financial Officer; Wikus Olivier, our Head of Strategy; and Lotz
Mahlangeni, our Chief Risk Officer. And we've got a number of other members of our
Executive Committee who are online, and who will assist with questions.
I'm going to provide a brief overview of the context, against which these results were
produced; outline the strategic progress made in the first half of 2021; and then hand
over to Abigail, who will take you through the financial results; I will then talk a little bit
Page 1 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

about our priorities and the outlook for the balance of the year, before we open up to
questions.
The advent of COVID-19 in late 2019 has created a very difficult environment in which all
businesses have had to operate ever since. 2020 was a year within Sanlam Group, where
the economic effects of the pandemic, severely-impacted our operations. 2021 is proving
to be a year in which the health impacts of the pandemic are severely impacting our
operations, both financially and in terms of disruption to our people's ability to work.
We've lost 36 colleagues, as well as, family members of many of our colleagues. We
continue across all our markets to have to navigate working remotely in most cases for
very significant periods of time. Our people have been incredibly brave, resolute and
have remained dedicated to serving our customers throughout this time.

Bloomberg Transcript

South Africa has struggled to roll out vaccines at the rate that is required to allow people
and the economy to return to some level of pre-COVID normality. Sanlam has directly
funded the efforts of business for South Africa to ensure a strong public/private
partnership; to improve the efficacy of the vaccine program. We've assisted vaccination
efforts of our own colleagues across Africa; made available at the very outset several
fully-staffed vaccination sites for the public in partnership with Afrocentric; and we've run
extensive media and social media campaigns to encourage people to vaccinate.
The evidence is overwhelming, that while vaccination does not fully prevent infection, it
significantly reduces the risk of infection; it reduces hospitalization and dramatically
reduces mortality rates. It therefore, remains our conviction, that we all need to work
together, to make vaccination as effective as possible, in combating the scourge of this
pandemic.
In July, South Africa experienced severe civil disruption, which further weakened our
economic recovery process and which has also extended the third wave considerably.
Sanlam would like to urge all role players to work together to avoid repeats of this kind of
disruption.
Our purpose at Sanlam can be summed up, as empowering generations to be financiallyconfident, secured and prosperous. The COVID pandemic has heightened the
recognition amongst the public about the need to provide for their future and for their
families' futures. Lockdown measures of various sorts have led to higher savings rates in
economies and we have seen clear evidence that consumers are providing more
diligently for their future.
The group has paid mortality claims of ZAR10 billion in the first half of 2021, and a total of
ZAR22 billion since the start of 2020, underlining the role that the group plays directly in
assisting customers to navigate the future. The group through Santam has provided ZAR3
billion of provisions to support small businesses impacted by the pandemic. The actual
relief provided to customers is far higher than the ZAR3 billion, as the provision reflects
expected reinsurance recoveries. A ZAR1 billion of immediate relief payments were made
in 2020, and in many cases, clients have indicated that relief payments have fully covered
Page 2 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

their losses. Santam has made good progress in settling remaining claims and has paid a
further ZAR700 million by the end of August 2021.
The group experienced very strong growth in the direct and digital channels, and the
businesses we've invested in as the pandemic encouraged digital adoption amongst
consumers. The group has maintained a very strong balance sheet throughout the period
and a strong solvency position despite the level of claims, underlining the security and the
peace of mind, that the group provides to our customers.
Our focus in 2021 has been on disciplined and diligent execution to encourage recovery in
our operational results back to the 2019 base levels as soon as possible. Some of the
highlights for this six months, have been a very strong recovery in new business volumes,
particularly in life insurance, up over 50% on previous year; a very strong recovery in the
value of new business, up over 90% on the previous year; stable and strong operating
results from all of our group businesses, despite the much higher COVID claims, which
have clearly negatively-impacted on the life insurance results; persistency has improved
despite adverse economic conditions; we've had continued strong performance from our
African businesses outside of South Africa, despite the headwinds from COVID in the
form of higher mortality claims; and as I said earlier, we had strong growth in digital, and
direct-to-consumer businesses and channels, where new business volumes are up by 37%
over last year, and a 145% on 2019.
I want to spend a bit of time on our key financial metrics for 2021 first half. The group's
earnings recovered in the first half of 2021. The net result from financial services increased
by 16% or in constant currency terms, by 22%, impacted positively by higher market levels,
improved credit provisions, fewer credit defaults and a narrowing of credit spreads across
the business. Improved float returns in Africa, outside of South Africa; and negatively, of
course, because of higher mortality losses from the pandemic, offset to some degree, by
releases of discretionary reserves. Our net operational earnings were up by 33% due to
higher investment returns, which supported that 16% increase in the net result from
financial services.
The impacts of the pandemic were felt very strongly on our life new business in the first
half of 2020. You'll recall that the first quarter of 2020 was a particularly strong year for
the group, but the rest of 2020 proved to be very tough. In the first half of 2021, we've
seen a very strong recovery in life insurance new business premiums. While investment
sales remained strong, but growth in our general insurance book is muted. Overall, we've
seen growth in new business of 12%, undoubtedly supported by the higher savings rates
being experienced in economies; the digital enablement of our businesses; and the
initiatives across Africa to cross-sell life insurance into the ex-Saham client base. The value
of new business recovered as life insurance sales recovered. Value of new business was
up by 94% on prior year.
We're also very pleased to see the net fund flows up by 13% to ZAR37.8 billion, reflecting
the repositioning of our asset management business as South Africa's largest blackowned asset manager, with ESG capabilities integrated into all of our processes, to
ensure responsible and impactful investment outcomes. Finally, our adjusted return on

Page 3 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

group equity value, which is our main metric of long-term shareholder value creation was
6.2%, a little bit below our hurdle rate of 6.6%.
Although, excellent life new business, strong flows into the investment business, good
persistency, and strong cost management, all supported our returns. A few factors
weighed against the achievement of our hurdle rates. The first were COVID impacts,
which were very negative. And we also reduced the group equity value in respect of our
UK Life and Pensions business. The latter reflects our intention to dispose of this business,
at below its previously-reported group equity value. The disposal of this asset represents
the best possible capital allocation decision for the group, and the negative impact on our
group equity value is more than offset by the gain in the prior year, that resulted from our
disposal of the Nucleus business.
COVID has created such a dislocation to our business and of course to many others, that
we've been very focused on recovery to pre-COVID levels on key metrics. In the first half
of 2021, our net result from financial services is still 7% below the 2019 number on a
constant currency basis. But if one allows for some positive one-offs that occurred in 2019,
the first half result is 5% up on 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first half of 2021 sales, value of new business, and net client cash flow, are all well up
on 2019 levels: sales were up by 57%; the value of new business by 37%; and net fund
flows by 65%. This reflects the response of our distribution to the challenges of the
pandemic, as well as, improved savings rates and the demand for our products.
New business margins have also recovered satisfactorily. Finally, our adjusted return on
group equity value has moved towards our hurdle rate. The environment is still extremelychallenging, particularly the ongoing COVID pandemic. So it remains unclear whether we
can fully-recover on all metrics to pre-COVID levels within the current year.
During the six months, the Board has strengthened itself through the appointment of Ebe
Essoka, who brings a wealth of knowledge and experience of the continent; and Willem
van Biljon, who brings tremendous experience from large-scale technology,
transformation and innovation. We'd like to welcome these two new Independent
Directors to our Board, and look forward to their contribution going forward. We've also
appointed Carl Roothman, currently the CEO of Sanlam Private Wealth, to succeed Robert
Roux from the 1 of January, 2022, following Robert's decision to retire from the group at
the end of the year.
The group repositioned its brand in the first half of 2021 to reflect our purpose more
closely. The campaign was conducted mainly via digital channels, and forms a part of the
shift of the group to be more -- a more accessible company for everybody.
Our group's purpose is aimed at uplifting all segments of society through the power of
financial services, and the virtuous cycle of saving and investment. Our recentlyannounced InsurTech alliance with MTN will allow us to extend the benefit of insurance
and savings products to millions of customers across the continent, who would otherwise
find access to such products extremely-difficult.
Page 4 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

Our focus on Africa and India means, that not only do we want to focus on improving
people's lives through access to financial services, risk reduction and driving of the savings
and investment cycle, but we also want to try and mitigate the effects of climate change,
which are most-severe for people living in these areas. Our second climate fund, this time
focused on water and oceans, is set to close shortly, and will invest between $300 and
$400 million.
We are also concerned with playing a role in direct job creation; the establishment of our
legacy funds to support small- and medium enterprises; the turnaround from the impacts
of COVID is gaining traction. We've invested ZAR800 million so far in various businesses
and more than 2,000 new jobs have been directly created as a result of this investment.
As I mentioned earlier, Sanlam is working hard with business partners and governments to
improve the take-up of the vaccine and to create a better environment for all people.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will not turn briefly to a few comments on the progress of our strategic implementation
in the last six months. Our strategy remains unchanged. We continue to focus on
becoming an African champion, by creating a fortress position in South Africa, growing in
the rest of Africa, and strengthening in selected markets outside of Africa, particularly
India. We continue to execute our strategy through focused business clusters and to
enable execution through digital transformation, culture development, innovation and
partnership.
We continue to maintain disciplined allocation of capital, and have taken a decision to
reallocate capital from the United Kingdom to the rest of our portfolio. We have begun a
process to exit several of the UK businesses, other than our asset management
businesses, which form an integral part of our overall asset management business, and
allow us to provide global asset management solutions to our customers.
As previously disclosed, we have sold Nucleus and received proceeds of GBP75 million in
August 2021. We are at an advanced stage of the process to dispose of the UK life
insurance business, Sanlam Life and Pensions. As mentioned earlier, this disposal will be at
-- below the previously-determined or reported group equity value. We also intend to
dispose of the Sanlam UK Wealth Management business and are in the process of
evaluating offers. The reported group equity value for this business is believed to be
conservative. We've also raised ZAR2 billion of new debt during August. Some of it
replacing a maturing ZAR1 billion issue. This creates some further balance sheet flexibility
for the group.
Our asset management business has achieved excellent flows following the achievement
of its new empowerment status and the ongoing embedding of ESG into all our
investment processes. We believe, this business is in a stronger competitive position
because of these changes. We announced earlier this year, the acquisition of the group
risk and life insurance book from Alexander Forbes, and once approved, these
transactions will strengthen our Sanlam Corporate business.
Driving a deeper share of wallet remains a key focus for our South African business. We
launched an innovative new loyalty mechanism this year, which will assist us to reward

Page 5 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

clients for their loyalty to the group. We're in the process of launching a new health
insurance offering to the corporate market in partnership with Afrocentric, and hope that
this will also assist to deepen the share of wallet of our customers over time.
The group announced the formation of a new InsurTech alliance with MTN, a joint venture
that will extend insurance and savings business across the mobile footprint of MTN. Within
South Africa, we see significant long-term general insurance, life and savings
opportunities as we open access to mobile channels.
Within Africa, we announced our intention to acquire a further stake in Saham Maroc,
strengthening our already strong position in Morocco. In the longer-term, we envisage the
new partnership with MTN being able to extend our reach to a wide base of clients. MTN
has nearly 50 million Mobile Money clients today and this client base is expanding quickly.
The opportunity exists to reinvent the world of distribution, and to extend financial
services to the previously-unbanked.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last year, we launched several initiatives to drive the cross-sell of life insurance into the
principally general insurance base of the ex-Saham business. I'm pleased to say, that the
fruits of these efforts became apparent during the first half of 2021, as we saw strong
cross-sell of life insurance, which helped lift the value of new business within Sanlam
Emerging Markets.
I'm pleased to say, that we've started to make progress in rebalancing the Moroccan
float, even managing to sell some fixed property. We've also made good progress in
simplifying the portfolio of businesses within Sanlam Emerging Markets by exiting a few
small businesses. And we anticipate, having fully-finished this disposal process by the end
of the year.
I am now going to hand over to Abigail, who will take you through the financial results.

Abigail Mukhuba

{BIO 20217730 <GO>}

Thank you, Paul. Good morning. COVID remains a challenge in our operating environment.
The continued recovery in equity markets in the first half of 2021 laid the foundation for
positive returns in most of the key markets where Sanlam operates. This was relative to
the sharp declines that were recorded in last year. This has benefited asset-based
income, specifically with Morocco and Cote d'Ivoire, recording strong gains from higher
investment returns on insurance funds. The South African rand strengthened against most
of the currencies during this period. And this had a substantial negative impact on growth
in the group's key performance indicators. Credit spreads narrowed further, while longterm interest rates generally increased relative to December 2020. The Nigerian bond
yield normalized and that's reflected in the positive impact on value of new business.
From a cluster contribution perspective, this period, we reported pleasing underlying
performance from all clusters, well in our way -- well on our way to match or exceed 2019
levels in some of our KPIs. This has translated into the group achieving 16% growth in
earnings despite the difficult operating environment. In constant currency, as Paul has
Page 6 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

alluded to, this growth was 22%. The lower contribution from Sanlam Life and Savings was
impacted by significant COVID-related mortality claims, resulting in a lower experience -a lower risk experience relative to the first half of 2020. If we exclude this lower risk
experience, net result from financial services is up 10%.
This environment where COVID continues to persist has emphasized the importance of
appropriate insurance cover, as well as, long-term investment plans for retirement and
unforeseen circumstances. 2020, included the negative impact of hard lockdowns on
face-to-face sales. However, in 2021, our distribution channels continued to drive the
adoption of digital-enabled sales. This resulted in a 12% increase in new business
volumes, primarily driven by the SLS cluster. Net VNB almost doubled that of the same
period in 2020. And this pleasing performance led to a net VNB margin of 2.82% for the
group. Net cash flows of ZAR38 billion were primarily driven by strong Southern African
region institutional and retail inflows.

Bloomberg Transcript

The biggest impact of COVID on mortality claims was on the SLS cluster. Gross monthly -mortality claims continued, on track -- or they continued rather, to track the general trend
in South Africa. Further, the second wave of infections impacted Retail Affluent and Sanlam
Corporate more severely than the first wave. Added to that, the level of offset from
annuities and disability was lower than that of 2020. And this gave rise to an overall
excess claims net of reinsurance, takes [ph] and annuity offset of just over ZAR1 billion.
The negative claims experience was largely offset by a release of discretionary reserves
of ZAR1.25 billion. And this is similar to the numbers that we communicated in our fourmonth update. Management continues to assess the impact of COVID, as well as, the
potential reserve releases with a full year view in mind. We are further implementing
several initiatives aimed at limiting the future impact of COVID on future mortality losses.
Wave three had a significantly higher mortality rates than what we had expected. And as
we head into the last quarter of 2021, a lot of uncertainty surrounding the development of
the pandemic continues to exist. We continue with underwriting changes that follow a riskbased approach. SLS expects ZAR1.2 billion to ZAR1.5 billion of excess claims in the
second half of 2021. Together with the initiatives in place, we believe, that we will have
modest reserves, which should assist in managing uncertainty of the impact of COVID.
Not included on this slide, is the impact of COVID on our SEM business, on the African
portfolio, which also elevated in the first -- in the first half of 2021 compared to last year,
as well as, the delayed impact of wave two in India. Although, the impact on SEM was
marginal compared to the SLS impact, this negative experience brought about some
ZAR157 million negative impact on SEM life profits.
We continue to measure the long-term shareholder value creation through return on
group equity value. Our co-operations produced very strong underlying performance in
spite of the COVID experience. And exceptional VNB performance combined with other
positive experience variances offset the COVID impact. As such, we reported adjusted
RoGEV of about 6.2%. This was lower than the 6.6 -- this was lower than the 6.6% target

Page 7 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

and this was due to the negative risk claims experience, even after the reserve releases
and the write-down of the UK life business as Paul has already mentioned.
Whilst reserves, that have been released to offset the negative impact of excess claims
on earnings, they still have an overall negative impact on RoGEV, given the loss of value
in-force related to some of the reserves. Actual RoGEV per share after the six months
ended up being at 3.9%, which is even further from the hurdle, mainly because of
economic assumption changes and the impact of the rand strength against the major
currencies.
From the solvency position, the group continued to be resilient, and well within regulatory
requirements, as well as, our own targets. Our group solvency capital requirement cover
ratio decreased from December 2020, primarily due to the dividend pay-out in the first
half, as well as, the negative experience and assumption changes.
I will now move to highlight some of the key performance indicators in our clusters.
Starting with SLS, SLS recorded excellent new business volume performance, exceeding
2019 levels across the three market segments. Single premiums underpinned growth in
the Affluent market, as increased early retirements and higher long-term yield, boosted
demand for life annuities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Retail Mass continued is robust recovery with new business sales growing by 49% in
2020, with strong growth from all distribution channels. Compared to 2019, Retail Mass
was up 29%. This performance was supported by the strong performance from Capitec
and the group businesses. Individual life sales remained marginally below 2019 levels.
Retail Affluent overall new business sales grew by 53%, with Glacier, the biggest
contributor with good demand from international products, life annuities, as well as,
preservation funds. All other lines of business achieved strong growth, apart from the
lower assistance and group risk sales in BrightRock.
Sanlam Corporate's new business volumes increased by 69%, due to strong single
premium growth in the life insurance and investment lines of business. However, the
recurring premium risk business declined on 2020. From a lines of business perspective,
both life and investment businesses grew strongly, compared to 2020 and 2019. And life
business continues to be the biggest contributor to SLSs performance. This period saw a
significant increase in life insurance and investment business sales in Retail Affluent and
Corporate.
Overall, SLS recorded particularly strong growth with all market segments contributing, as
a supportive environment created by higher savings rate -- as a supportive environment
created by higher savings rates related to the pandemic was aided by increased
understanding of the need for saving and insurance amongst our customers.
The strong growth in new business volumes is also reflected in the net result from
financial services position for both Mass and Affluent. Corporate, however, experienced

Page 8 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

net cash outflow due to the sharp increase in mortality and disability claims, coupled with
the loss of low-margin business.
SLS recorded strong VNB improvements across all three market segments, reflective of
new life business performance, as well as, a change in mix at the Glacier -- at Glacier to
higher-margin products. As we mentioned, SLS is up 10% excluding the impact of COVID.
The strong VNB performance in SLS contributed to a strong RoGEV on an actual and an
adjusted basis.
Moving on to Sanlam Emerging Markets. Overall, life insurance business volumes
increased by 47% in constant currency. There was strong growth across all regions with
SPA Life benefiting from improved cross-sell in the former Saham businesses. Southern
Africa's performance was driven by Botswana's group funeral and credit life business, and
Namibia's entry-level market continued good gains. Morocco recorded strong growth in
group life and bancassurance sales. Volumes improved strongly in India and Malaysia, as
the businesses benefited from diversification in distribution channels.
On the general insurance side, volumes declined by 9%, but were 3% up, if you exclude
Lebanon and look at it in constant currency. SPA GI new business volumes were 11% higher
in local currency, supported by improved volumes in the motor and health business lines in
Morocco. Solid growth was achieved despite the negative impacts of continued travel
restrictions on the assistance business and the cancellation of loss-making schemes in the
Cote d'Ivoire health business. India volumes were down on 2020, due to lower crossselling into the credit business and a lack of regulated prescribed premium increases on
third-party business. The investment new business grew 10% in constant currency, despite
a high base in 2020, as further large mandates were awarded in Botswana and Namibia.
Strong improvements in VNB were reported across all regions. North and West Africa
posted particularly strong improvement in VNB, benefiting from higher volumes and an
increase in the yield in Nigeria. We're very pleased with the improvement in VNB margin.
Excluding Lebanon, earnings increased 69% in constant currency. The credit business has
recorded a combined increase in earnings, largely due to lower impairment charges and
improved disbursements and collections during the early part of the year. All of Saham's
sterling performance culminated into a pleasing adjusted RoGEV turnaround; a strong
underlying performance drove adjusted RoGEV of a -- drove adjusted RoGEV to a positive
7.5% compared to a negative 17% in 2020. And then the actual RoGEV was further
impacted by a strong exchange rate -- the rand against major currencies and economic
assumption changes.
The SPA GI portfolio recorded a net insurance margin just over 20% for the first six
months of 2021 relative to 3.6% in 2020. This solid performance was driven by the
improvement in investment return on insurance funds, of negative 2.5% in 2020, which
then changed to 15% in 2021. The net underwriting margin was satisfactory at just over
5%, albeit, at the lower-end of 5% to 9% target range. SGI earnings were lower than 2020
as courts in India continued to operate at a limited capacity. This impacts the ability for the
business to finalize claims. In addition, the lack of premium increases on third-party
businesses also negatively-impacted the underwriting margin. SGI's net insurance result,
however, remained satisfactory at over 21% of net earned premiums.
Page 9 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

In the Sanlam Investment Group, net fund inflows of circa ZAR17 billion were 59% higher
than 2020, despite the large mortality-related outflows at SLS. The significant
improvement in net inflows was driven by strong institutional and retail inflows, coupled
with strong inflows in Wealth Management. Satrix and the Multi-Manager attracted
particularly strong net inflows.
SIG's contribution to earnings increased significantly, largely due to a further narrowing of
credit spreads, which led to a turnaround in the mark-to-market losses on listed bonds at
SanFin. Sanlam Investments reported a decline in gross result from financial services,
primarily due to relatively-lower performance fees in 2021. If you exclude performance
fees, it would have been up 5%.
The Wealth Management business achieved strong growth, supported by performance
fee income, as well as, the higher level of assets under management. And then the
growth in the International business was supported by an improved performance from
Sanlam UK, where Nucleus benefited from improved net fund inflows and higher average
assets under administration. On a RoGEV perspective, SIG's RoGEV contribution to the
group was knocked down by the write-down in the UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then finally, from a Santam perspective, I think the Santam team would have
presented the results last week, so I won't go into much detail there. Suffice to say,
Santam achieved satisfactory gross written premium growth in the conventional insurance
business, and improved its underwriting margin. We are also pleased, that Santam has
declared an interim dividend, which we will account for in the second half of 2021.
I will now hand back over to Paul. Thank you.

Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Abigail, thank you very much. I'm going to talk a little bit about the priorities that we have
for the balance of the year. Firstly, it's extremely-important for us, that we keep up our
drive to recover key operational metrics around new business, value of new business,
operating profits and dividends. And we find ourselves extremely-focused on this. I do
believe, that it is going to be possible for us to get to where we want to be, but of
course, the pandemic does loom large.
The second area of focus for us, is that we need to ensure that we can begin 2022 with
new pricing, underwriting and products, that reflect the reality of the COVID pandemic.
Although, we repriced our group risk business in 2020 and early 2021, there is still some
work to do, to ensure that the higher-risk premiums are appropriate. Furthermore, we will
need to see repricing across the rest of the continent in group life business, where the
impacts of COVID have been a bit delayed, compared to South Africa.
In respect to our Retail life insurance, there's a need to review underwriting and product
design, to ensure that we adequately-reflect the COVID risk. We fully expect, despite
vaccination programs, to see a high level of deaths from COVID, and from the nonCOVID for the next few years. In 2020 and 2021, we've used reserves and margins to
Page 10 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

cover the impact of COVID on mortality experience. However, we will only have a modest
ability to absorb higher claims without an impact on net result from financial services in
2022 and beyond. For this reason, it is essential, that pricing and underwriting need to be
adapted to deal with the higher future mortality claims that we expect to arise from
COVID.
Strategically, our priorities have not changed, and we will continue to focus on developing
and strengthening our Emerging Markets portfolio of businesses in Africa; to improve the
scale and effectiveness of our South African operations; to launch new products where
gaps exist; and to digitalize our business to improve efficiency and competitiveness. Our
balance sheet is very strong; our leverage is very low; and while we execute our strategy,
we will continue to allocate capital judiciously.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our culture is what is going to set us apart in the long-term, and here we continue to
focus on improving our culture. Key issues for us are driving a greater degree of
innovation; developing our own talents to support the future needs of the business; and
ensuring that our employees can adapt to a hybrid working model from next year, and
that their mental and physical well-being is being taken care of.
I'm going to talk a little bit about how we see the outlook for the balance of this year. The
unpredictability of the pandemic makes any forecasting extremely-complex. We do
believe, that the vaccine roll-out remains a key priority. And that, although, we will see a
continued economic recovery, the efficacy of vaccine roll-outs, is going to impact on the
pace of this economic turnaround. We anticipate further negative mortality experience for
the balance of 2021, and Abigail gave you some insights as to our expectations there, as
the third wave claims have been coming through in July and August.
As I mentioned earlier, we believe, that from 2022 onwards, new pricing and underwriting
are essential for the profitability and sustainability of the business. We anticipate that
Santam will have been able to substantially deal with the remaining business continuity
claims by the end of this year.
As a group, we have wonderful people, who care deeply about their customers, and
they're backed up by a strong balance sheet and a culture of execution. I'm really amazed
and proud at how well our people have done to deliver for clients and for shareholders.
We're committed to continue to develop the business for the future and to deliver
outstanding value for all of our stakeholders.
I'm going to open now for questions and Karl will field these, and myself, Abigail, and the
rest of the management team will do our best to answer your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

Page 11 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Thank you, Paul. Thank you, Abigail. I think undoubtedly a very strong set of results,
particularly if you look at them in comparison to a normal year which is 2019.
Congratulations to you, Paul, and the team for that. We're now going to get into the Q&A,
and joining Paul and Abigail here at the studio in Midrand are our colleagues,
Mr.Mlondolozi Mahlangeni, our Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary; as well as Wikus
Olivier, our Group Executive for Strategy and Impact Officer at Sanlam.
And also from Cape Town, we have three of our colleagues joining us from there as well.
Mr.Jurie Strydom, our Chief Executive for the Sanlam Life and Savings Business; and
Mr.Heinie Werth, our Chief Executive for the Sanlam Emerging Markets Business, also
Executive Director, the Sanlam group; as well as Mr.Robert Roux, our Chief Executive for
Sanlam Investments Group.
Our colleagues will be here to field the questions that will come through. We are coming
to you virtually. And so there's a number of platforms that will be used for the Q&A.
There's the -- they call it the chorus call platform, which is the telephone platform for
those of us that were born before computers and we'll be taking questions coming
through the -- that platform as well as what they call Copicam [ph], which is the small
device here and questions will be coming through and as they come through, I'll then
pose questions to the panel here in Midrand and in Cape Town as well for the Q&A.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's then kick off colleagues without further ado. I'd like us to start with the chorus call
platform and let's then take the questions that come through there. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you, sir. The first question we have is from Warwick Bam from AVL Capital Markets.

Q - Warwick Bam

{BIO 19921967 <GO>}

Good morning, Paul, Abigail, and the Sanlam team, thanks for the presentation. Three
from me this morning. You released discretionary margins to offset the COVID mortality
experience and if your COVID mortality expectations of an additional 1.2 to 1.5 billion
transpire, do you have sufficient discretionary margins to get to a similar net result in the
second half, and in the same question, really, I want to understand how you will approach
rebuilding those discretionary margins, if we can start with that question, first. Thanks.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

You should get a prize today for beating Michael into first place. That takes some doing.
So, yes, you're quite right. We've, from the outset being using existing reserves and
margins to offset claims. The Sanlam prudency over many years has built up a number of
reserves and discretionary margins that as you probably know ultimately under IFRS-17 are
going to have to have to be reviewed and released in any event.
So, one of the questions I think facing the whole industry is to what extent one can hold
pandemic reserves into the future. I believe that there will be some ability to do that and
Page 12 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

we will seek to, I hope rebuild over a long period of time, pandemic reserves up again,
because clearly, pandemics will occur from time to time. So, that will be through margins in
the pricing of our business, and we'll have to gradually restore those over a long period of
time.

FINAL

Q - Warwick Bam

{BIO 19921967 <GO>}

Simple clarity. Just in terms of expectations around the net impact of mortality, if current
mortality meets your expectations of ZAR1.2 to ZAR1.5 billion, should we expect similar
discretionary margin releases?

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Yes, I think, we've been pretty adamant that for this year, you can expect to see a fairly
neutral position from mortality for the full year, and as we said, that will allow us only
modest further margins and reserves going into next year. So for this year, you should
expect to see a pretty neutral position on mortality overall, and next year it's critical that
we get the pricing on the underwriting correct, so that we don't have to continue to rely
on margin releases, except at a very modest level.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Warwick Bam

{BIO 19921967 <GO>}

Thanks Paul. My next question is just around, if the potential to see a dislocation between
mortality in the older cohorts of your book due to vaccinations and the offsetting impact
that you've had around your longevity risk, we've seen the offset come through in 2020,
and in the first half of this year. I'm really trying to get an understanding as to whether
that's changing because of the vaccine rollout, especially in the older portion of your
policyholder base? Thanks.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Yeah, look, I think that's a -- that is a question for the future. I would expect vaccinations
clearly to make a very big difference to the older population and then of course naturally
you're going to have fewer offsets from annuities, but also you will know I'm sure that the
bulk of the people who die are also the older people. So, vaccinations also have an
offsetting effect on death claims.
So on balance, I think we're going to be much better off from the vaccination program. In
fact, there's no question that that -- and I've hopefully made that clear that vaccination
program and the success of it is absolutely vital for our business, but not just for our
business, for the whole economy. I mean I don't know Lotz, do you want to add anything
or?

A - Mlondolozi Mahlangeni

{BIO 21927635 <GO>}

Thank you, Paul. Yes, I think that is entirely correct in the sense that we already, I mean we
are on the midst of the third wave now. We're already have seen in the second wave that
the demographic profile of the lives that were being impacted had changed slightly. So
there were a lot more younger lives being impacted. But as we see now in the third wave,
because the older people had vaccination opportunities a lot earlier. So, we are seeing
Page 13 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

that impact, but I think we must also bear in mind that it's just merely an offsetting impact.
The first impact you need to mitigate is the mortality impact, which the vaccination will
help with mitigating.

FINAL

Q - Warwick Bam

{BIO 19921967 <GO>}

Thank you. That's helpful. Just very last one, from me. We've had lifestyles changed due
to COVID interest rates are low and I guess economic uncertainty is also added to the
increased savings rate, and you think that comes through your investment volumes. Based
on your analysis of the customers' channels and products that are contributing to that
growth in investment and savings products, how sustainable do you believe these
volumes are?

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, so I think that there's no question that in the long run, everything must be driven as
you know by GDP. So, there's no question in my mind that, as we revert to normality, and
obviously, the sooner we will revert to normality the better. I think savings rates will reduce
undoubtedly, that will affect the banks and deposits in banks, it will affect us as well and I
do think that this is an abnormally benign period from a sales point of view and I think
we've seen that across our whole industry, it's not unique to Sanlam, but of course one
hopes as well that we'll get some economic recovery as well that will help, but there's no
doubt that I don't think you can just take a straight line to the growth rates that you're
seeing and extrapolate into the future. When we will see that pairing back, we don't know
of course, and a lot will depend on when people are able to revert to normal activity.
So, I would think that the question to ask is when do we see lockdowns reverting when do
we see life as it was previously returning to normal. And then I think you're going to see
savings reverting to more normal levels. But hopefully, people will have learned some new
disciplines around saving because as you know in our economy, this is a critical area and
it's an area that traditionally South Africans have been relatively poor at.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Paul.
Thank you very much, Paul.
Thanks Lotz. Are there any more questions on the chorus call?

Operator
At this stage, there are no further questions.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Great. Let's then pivot across to the Copicam [ph], the small device that I have. Yeah, I'll
read out the questions. I think this question probably, either Paul yourself or Robert,
comes from William Short from -- William Short from Vunani Fund Managers.
Page 14 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

Q - Rowan Williams-Short

{BIO 3704807 <GO>}

Rowan -- Rowan Williams-Short

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Rowan Williams, okay -- it doesn't put his name, just puts his surname. Please elaborate
on the UK disposals, in what ways did those businesses not meet prior expectations?

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Okay. So, I mean Robert help me out here if I get it wrong and please -- please add
anything. So, Rowan nice to hear from you. Look, there was a strategy in the past of trying
to build domestic businesses in the UK that would bolster our asset management
businesses and I think what is true is that it's a very competitive market in the UK. We
didn't achieve the kind of scale that you need to do to, to be really successful but the
bottom line is that our strategy is now different and we're very focused on Africa and
actually staking our claim here. So, we want to deploy capital to the area of the highest
growth and highest return. And those businesses although they've done okay, really don't
fit our long-term strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, it's a question of reallocating capital away from there to places where we really want
to focus our business in the future. As I said, when I spoke, we will maintain our asset
management operations, because those remain crucial to us. I mean, Robert, I don't know
if you want to add anything.

A - Robert Roux

{BIO 18773329 <GO>}

No, I think you've covered it, Paul. I think we have to congratulate the management team
there and the work they've done in the process of really changing our strategy and
working with us to ensure that we get the best result overall.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Paul. Thanks, Robert. Next, two questions from Michael Christelis at UBS. Can you
quantify the change in mixed impacts on SLS new business margins, but really the shift
towards guaranteed annuities. What is the sustainable long-term margin in this business in
your view. Maybe Paul or --

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

that is definitely not a question for me, Michael you've answered one question. Is that how
you got beaten as you used the wrong platform? But Jurie, would you mind answering
that question?

A - Jurie Strydom

{BIO 16239298 <GO>}

So, morning, everybody. Michael, I think we have seen a shift. It's not just been towards
guaranteed annuities. It's also been a move towards international business, and of course,
Glacier has got a very successful international platform and preservation fund business as
well.
Page 15 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

So I wouldn't want to put a kind of a -- put a prediction on long-term margin. I would say
we're very pleased with the recovery in the margin that we've seen and we would have to
-- we'd have to maintain a margin like this, but I think it's also subject to what Paul has said
earlier, around the flows, because I mean the other benefit that we get is scale benefit
from volume. That, of course, also enhances margin.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Jurie. Also from Michael, are you able to adequately reprice group risk in Rest
of Africa for COVID-19 without losing business? That is your pricing power in these
markets greater than it is in South Africa? Heinie, maybe that's a question for you.

A - Heinie Werth

{BIO 7529974 <GO>}

Yes, Michael, we will be -- I think you will understand, we take it country-by-country, you
can't follow one approach through all of them. And in the different markets, we are
succeeding with pricing we needed, but we really do it selectively and with strong input
obviously from the local management and the people who understand the situation on
the ground much better, but the repricing is happening. It's happening at different places
in different countries, because the COVID waves impact is different in the different
countries.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Heinie. And maybe just stay on the floor here for a question from Mrs.Bunder [ph]
from MIBFA. Do you think this is the right time to add onto the Saham steak, considering
the high risk of uncertainty around the pandemic and slow vaccination pace in African
countries. Generally, what's the main justification for this transaction.

A - Heinie Werth

{BIO 7529974 <GO>}

Well, I think, one shouldn't generalize between us trying to increase our stake in Morocco
versus talking about Africa as holistically. Morocco, the way the pandemic played out in
Morocco is quite different to the other countries in Africa. We've got a very sound
business in Morocco and that's why we want to add to that. But this time, we apply to the
Rest of Africa, Paul have referred to it that Sanlam is committed to Africa. It is a long-term
play and you also use opportunities like this to further position yourself for the future.
So I would rather want to say that in addition to what we are doing in Morocco, we also
are looking for further opportunities across Africa, because we are really building a longterm game here and you have to add whenever the opportunities come about, and
maybe just staying on Saham, I think Mrs.Bunder's additional question here is, what will be
the expected ROI or return in investment from Saham, post additional stake acquisitions.
The -- I think, the only reason why it is, I think that (inaudible) is quite often still used as
Saham, we talk about SPIGA [ph]. So I'm used to include Lebanon in that portfolio of our
general insurance businesses. These businesses, which came from our East and Southern
Africa, but if we look at that holistically, the required order rate from the group is risk-free
rate, plus 800 basis points and in that we allocate it to the GI businesses and to our life
businesses.
Page 16 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

And our expectation we will not do, we've got a little rate for every country, every
business and we will not do an investment, if we don't believe it can meet our hurdle [ph]
rates. So I'm generalizing a bit. But overall we are trying to meet our risk-free rate plus
800 basis point. And from that, you can then derive, what we want out of Morocco.
Morocco, obviously, have a stronger currency than South Africa, and that is all factors that
you take into account when you set the hurdle rate. But overall, we only invest if we
believe we can outperform our hurdle rate.

A - Unidentified Speaker
So, Heinie. Naturally COVID and vaccination is very topical at the moment. So, the next
two questions are around the vaccination drive. (Inaudible) from SBG Securities asks, do
you expect customer behavior to change post vaccination, that is less appreciation of life
risk products. Don't know maybe Lotz, maybe Jurie or anyone can take that question?
Jurie, can you take it.
Jurie, why don't you take it.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Because Jurie represents the biggest base of clients, we're hopefully getting vaccinated
as we talk.

A - Jurie Strydom

{BIO 16239298 <GO>}

Paul, was that a call to me?

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Yeah, did you -- were you sleeping while the question came in?

A - Jurie Strydom

{BIO 16239298 <GO>}

No, no.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Do you want to ask it again?

A - Jurie Strydom

{BIO 16239298 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty) to step in there. I think it's hard to say. I think that we do we -- but we
have seen just the experience of the pandemic, really driving appreciation of risk cover in
our products, and I think we're seeing that in our persistency. So, I'd like to believe that,
that in this time, the industry is proven its worth to the client base, and I would hope that
that continues to a degree.

Page 17 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

FINAL

I think Jurie to what you're saying, you know, it's not just about life insurance. I think what
people have realized is that and this is true, I believe, the world over is that many people
are going to have to work for longer in order to be able to retire. Focus [ph] around the
world are under tremendous pressure. And so, I think clients really appreciate that the
need to save for retirement is also stepped up.
So, not only do you need to protect, this has brought home that pandemics are real, real
threat. So, people do need life cover and health cover, but they also understand the
importance of saving for the future. And we've always had pandemics in the world, let's
not forget that. The difference though today is, we have such a connected world with
travel, but these things spread very quickly. So, the advent of pandemics is not new, the
advent of the devastation from them is a relatively new thing. I think people have
understood that change.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. This is a venture into behavioral science. I don't know Lotz from your world, any
views on from a risk point of view, what one can anticipate change in behaviors, and what
sort of planning needs to take place.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mlondolozi Mahlangeni

{BIO 21927635 <GO>}

Thank you, caller. I mean Jurie and Paul have covered it. I mean I think there will be -- I think
pandemic has brought to home some of the risks that we face and the protection that we
need to get from those risks and also the need to also make sure that you are provided
for retirement as Paul has indicated. So I think there will be increased awareness for the
risk and there will be an increased need for planning for those risks. And so I think from
the services that we provided as a financial services company to ensure that we provide
an integrated financial services offering will be even more important in future. So, I think
that will enable us to serve our customers better.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Great. Thank you, Lotz.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Maybe just staying on this point, I think what we've learned, is that we're in a world where
risk aggregates much more quickly in the modern world than it may be 20-30 years ago.
So things like grid failure now are really big potential threat to people.
So you saw Texas. Texas never has -- never had snow -- seldom has snow. They got snow
and a grid failure. It was a big problem. We can't have grid failure in this country, that will
be a very profound impact. So, you're seeing how risks suddenly start aggregating and I
think people are more appreciative that we do live in a risky world, and that actually
business thrives on trying to minimize risk.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 18 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

FINAL

A question, I'll pose to you a bit later. Maybe you can think about it. It's not here because
you touched on snow in Texas and environmental issues, is just around ESG and what
Sanlam is thinking about and doing, as almost as a market leader in the ESG space, but
we'll come back to that one, Paul. There's also a question here from Arthur Thompson,
Integrated Investment Management. Also in vaccine, can you expand on what Sanlam is
doing to assist against vaccine hesitancy within the group and the client base? Don't know
who-So Karl, why don't you answer this, since it's your area that has been taken responsibility
for rolling out the advertising and media -- social media, trying to convince people the
work of (inaudible) as our company doctor are trying to convince the public.

A - Karl Socikwa

{BIO 4961412 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Look, I think the area of vaccination generally and it's not just within Sanlam, I think for the
general population and globally as well, is an area which is of critical importance at the
moment. Certainly, as a group, we are taking strides now to really encourage our
employees to get vaccinated, and really in seriously, exceptional circumstances will we
then say that, if you do not want to vaccine or vaccinate, then I will allow that but on
certain conditions. Because really it's about, as a company, we -- under obligation, legal
obligation to create a safe working environment for our employees.
And if people do not get vaccined or vaccinated, then we're failing in as far as that is
concerned and that I think will go even beyond just our employees, people that call at
Sanlam premises or sites and are therefore extended periods of time, it's important to
make sure that those people are vaccinated and that you continue to maintain a safe
working environment. It's very important colleagues. Paul mentions the area that I'm
responsible for at Sanlam as well, which is really the front window of the business where
we engage with a variety of our stakeholders, we found that in the last 18 months, we've
really been limited in building meaningful, lasting, face-to-face relationships with our
stakeholders because of the lockdown. So, if people get vaccinated, increasingly we'll be
able to get back to building those meaningful and lasting relationships, and to really
enable our stakeholders to get the full benefit of what Sanlam is about and has to offer.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Karl, it's true though that your area did a lot of research amongst the public as to why
there was hesitancy and surface that there's a lot of myths out there and so that's why
you conducted a campaign using our Chief Medical Officer,

A - Karl Socikwa

{BIO 4961412 <GO>}

Correct.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Social media to try to bust myths for people using scientific evidence and we spent I think
about ZAR10 million--

Page 19 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes.

FINAL

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

On an advertising campaign to try and shift this dialogue. Unfortunately, we live today in a
world of fake news and social media. So, it's incumbent on all businesses to try and do
their best to communicate.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

And I'm hoping that if we all work together, gradually we'll shift the -- we'll shift the center
of gravity on this thing, so that people understand that getting vaccinated is a necessity.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. The message is loud and clear, get vaccinated. It's important.

Bloomberg Transcript

A question here from Larissa Van Deventer from Barclays, I think it's for you Heinie. You
mentioned India as a growth opportunity. Do you see that growth on the insurance side or
is the bigger opportunity in Shriram's lending operations?

A - Heinie Werth

{BIO 7529974 <GO>}

Thank you, Karl. Larisa, I think if you just look at the sheer size of India, I mean, we've been
coming now for the last 15-16 years with the Shriram Group. The opportunities on both,
there is still definitely lot of scope lift on the credit businesses, and Shriram transport and
Shriram consumer finance, but then we really foresee more and more growth coming out
of the life and general insurance business.
Obviously, something like COVID had also helped us to actually accelerate getting growth
from other sites. We have seen it, especially on other non-Shriram businesses. We saw it
especially on the live site over the last year and there is a big drive also on the general
insurance side to also get growth from non- Shriram sources, but I would say overall I
mean we have to acknowledge our skill-sets or insurance, but if you look at the package,
it's about India as a whole and about credit and insurance.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Heinie. I'm looking for a question here for Wikus, but it will come to you, Jurie,
what's been the particular impact on Sanlam of funeral policy claims?

A - Jurie Strydom

{BIO 16239298 <GO>}

So, I mean, I think you can see from the Mass -- from the Retail Mass business that it was a
particularly heavy impact during Wave one last year, but of course, it's also come through
Page 20 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

in Wave 2 and Wave 3, and we've seen the more severe impact coming through actually
in the group schemes environment than on the individual business. That also as
environment as Paul alluded earlier that we've been looking very carefully at responding
appropriately for my kind of risk-based pricing perspective. Karl?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks for that Jurie. Wikus, maybe this question for you, how do you see capital ratios
adapting over the coming years in response to the possibilities for future pandemics or
other unexpected events? We've touched on the fact that pandemics come, whether it is
every 100 years or whatever the case might be, but how do you see capital ratios
adapting over the coming years in response to these possibilities?

A - Karl Socikwa

{BIO 4961412 <GO>}

Thanks, Karl. I think through the COVID pandemic that we've just gone through our
solvency ratios have actually stayed very strong, very resilient, well within our target
ranges, and Sanlam as a prudent culture, and as Paul also mentioned earlier, that we will
continue to try our base to build up reserves again to deal with future pandemics and
unforeseen events, and that will be their project will continue to follow. So, I don't see a -and it's difficult, none of us expected COVID, so they could be a massive event that we
don't foresee a Black Swan event, that we don't foresee at this stage, but I'm very
confident that we should be able to maintain our resilience that we've proved in the past.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Wikus. Paul, this maybe for you. This is an SA Inc type question. We've had had
recent looting and hurting in KZN. The Chief Executives of Anglo-American (inaudible)
Nedbank amongst others have expressed their views on the short-term and long-term
impact of the unrest and looting, what's your take? What ground for optimism is left for
ordinary South Africans.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Well, Karl. So clearly the looting and the unrest was absolutely awful and it's not a matter
of opinion, it's a matter of fact that it's actually impacted the GDP maybe as much as half
percent. It also has eroded confidence terribly in the country and it has extended without
doubt, the third wave of COVID which was the last thing any of us needed. You know,
looting and unrest are very difficult things to deal with anywhere in the world, sort of
wanting to actually shoot your citizens who do it.
So it is a very tricky area and clearly, there are a lot of economic strains on our people. I
think the optimal -- the cause for optimism for me, is that South Africans have rallied
together and actually are working hard, particularly businesses and civil society really
working hard, to put this country back on track. And to move things in the right direction.
Actually, the sad thing is we were beginning to see some real green shoots of growth
when this thing came along. So I think for all of us, we just need to dig in hard, stick to
turning the economy around, creating jobs and turning back the tide of unemployment
and poverty. That's in the long run, what we need to do.
Page 21 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

A - Unidentified Speaker
Great. Thanks, Paul. Abigail, just in the question of provisioning which obviously with the
level of claims that we've had to pay out, do you see any further provisioning that may still
be required for funeral and life policy cleanse for the group.

FINAL

A - Abigail Mukhuba

{BIO 20217730 <GO>}

Thanks, Karl. Other than obviously as experienced into the future, pens out and the
comment that's already been made in terms of topping up as we move into the future,
for uncertainties into the future. I don't see us getting any further abnormal provisioning
required at least for the near future in terms of 2021. Paul had already mentioned into
when he was talking now, regarding the 2021 remainder of the year, how much more
provisioning we still have in place, particularly for the pandemics as well as the
discretionary reserves.
We still believe to post point we've got modest provisioning for this half of the year and
according to our own expectations for 2022, we should still be able to cover what you call
some of it, but we obviously don't know the severity of the future waves as well as what
other variants you're going to get into the future. So, depending on all those variables,
we're trying our best to prepare for it, but it is an uncertain future.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, indeed. Absolutely, it is. Paul, back to ESG. I mean, I know you're very passionate
about community development, sustainability issues generally. Can you maybe just give us
a sense of what your view is? What you're thinking around the position and the leadership
role that Sanlam needs to take on the topic of sustainability or ESG.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Look, Karl. Every business, everywhere in the world needs to think about the long-term
sustainability of its operations, and for us in our industry, we're effectively long-term
savings and investment industry. We need strong economies and, without getting too
philosophical about it, I think what COVID has done has illustrated how sick the world
actually was when we went -- went into things. So if anybody is in any question or doubt
about the impacts of climate change and so on, they should now no longer be in any
doubt, because we can see the world recovering quite quickly actually.
So, but the challenges remain there in the long-term and particularly here in Africa and
India we've got also some additional challenges that more developed countries would not
have. So, access to financial services is an absolutely paramount issue and actually, if you
go back to the formation of Sanlam more than 100 years ago, our purpose has always
been to help people to uplift themselves, using the power of financial services.
So, that remains key to us and it's obviously why we are hugely involved and you and your
team are usually involved in financial literacy, consumer education, trying through our
partnership with MTN to extend financial inclusion. So, these are really very cool to us, but
it'd be nice for Robert to talk as well because the other thing we do is we deploy capital.
So, we raise capital from people. We then deploy it and Robert's team are responsible for
Page 22 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

that, and they've put an enormous amount of effort into thinking how they do that, in a
way that creates a future for all of us. Not just for our customers and for Sanlam, but for all
the communities and societies in which we operate, to do that.

FINAL

And I don't know Robert, if you want to talk a little bit about your thinking there.

A - Robert Roux

{BIO 18773329 <GO>}

The -- what has been true is that the G part of the ESG has always been the one that was
well done throughout the industry and we could tick the boxes, but more or more so,
everyone's concentrating on what's the impact that you make.
In South Africa, we are working -- doing our best to ensure that we have an impact
through creating jobs. It's very -- it's almost easier in some of the capital markets that
we're playing, like in private equity, where we can make a direct impact in the way that we
operate and create jobs, and we've seen and Paul has alluded to them earlier, some of
the investments that we've made, that has really made an impact from that perspective.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we also want to play a role overall in the economies, especially in emerging markets
and that's why we started with the climate fund rage, firstly with the energy front and now
we're busy deploying the water and oceans front.
In the process while we want to make an impact in society and make sure that we make
whatever investment we do, more sustainable as a process. For our local asset manager,
we've started with a partnership with Rebecca that plays -- that has a vast experience in
ESG, and we're starting to integrate that processes into our own investment process.
I think what is important is that you have to overtime illustrate that the impact of using
these processes --the ESG processes, will give you a better return, and I think it is
becoming more and more evident across the world.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Great. Thank you. Robert. Indeed, I think, issues of sustainability are absolutely critical in
recent times, and companies are increasingly being called upon to account in terms of
their activities, and the impact that the activities have on the environment.
We've also seen an increase in climate-related litigation. Sure, it hasn't quite touched
countries on the African continent yet, but we are susceptible to changes in the
environment, and I think increasingly companies are going to be held to account, in terms
of the activities and how it relates to that.
So, thank you very much for those responses. Our questions have dried up on the various
platforms. We still have a few minutes to go. I don't know if there are any last parting
shots. I'll maybe start in (Technical Difficulty) with the colleagues there, Heinie, Jurie, any
parting shots from your side before we come to Midrand?

Page 23 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

We're okay on this side. Thanks, Karl.
Great. Thank you, Wikus, Lotz, Abigail?

FINAL

A - Abigail Mukhuba

{BIO 20217730 <GO>}

And nothing additional, except to say Sanlam continues to be very strong, resilient and
we're confidently pushing on into the rest of 2021 and we hope to achieve most of our
targets.

A - Unidentified Speaker
So living with confidence.

A - Abigail Mukhuba

{BIO 20217730 <GO>}

Yep.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I like that. And then, last but not least, Paul.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Karl, thanks very much to you and to the whole team as well. And a very special thank you
to all of our staff and management. You've done a tremendous job on behalf of all of our
customers, stakeholders and shareholders.
I think you've done a really tremendous job and I was going to say, you, unfortunately, said
it Karl. We can all live with confidence and anybody who deals and partners with Sanlam,
puts your family's future entrusted to us, can truly live with confidence.
So thank you very much for giving us your time and we look forward to serving you all in
the future as well.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Paul. Thank you, colleagues, here in Midrand and in Cape Town. Thank you to
our guests, and thank you for the questions as well. What remains is for me, really to wish
you all safety. Get vaccinated, please. And all of the very best. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the

Page 24 of 25



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2021-09-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 25 of 25

