Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernhard Kaufmann, Chief Risk Oﬃcer
David Knibbe, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Delﬁn Rueda, Chief Financial Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi
Benoit Petrarque
Colm Kelly
Farooq Hanif
Fulin Liang
Michael Huttner
Robin van den Broek
Steven Haywood

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the operator speaking. Welcome to NN
Group's Analysts Conference Call on the Second Half Year 2020 Result. The telephone
lines will be in listen-only mode during the company's presentation. The lines will then be
open for a question-and-answer session. Before handing this conference call over to
Mr.David Knibbe Chief Executive Oﬃcer of NN Group, let me ﬁrst give the following
statements on behalf of the company.
Today's comments may include forward-looking statements such as statements regarding
future developments in NN Group's business, expectations for its future ﬁnancial
performance and any statements not involving a historical fact. Actual results may diﬀer
materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and NN group
assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information or for any other reason.
Furthermore, nothing in today's comments constitutes an oﬀer to sell or a solicitation of
an oﬀer to buy any security. Good morning, Mr.Knibbe. Over to you.

Page 1 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thank you and good morning, everyone. And welcome to our conference call to
discuss NN Group's results for the second half of 2020. As always, I am joined today by
Delﬁn Rueda, our Chief Financial Oﬃcer and Bernhard Kaufmann, our Chief Risk Oﬃcer,
and rest assured we are sitting in a very large room at an appropriate distance from each
other.
I will start oﬀ this presentation with the highlights of the second half year results, including
the strategic and commercial developments. Delﬁn will then talk in more detail about the
solvency position and operating capital generation as well as the ﬁnancial results of the
Group. After wrapping up the presentation, I will open up the call for Q&A.
Let me start with the ﬁnancial highlights shown on Slide 3. A lot happened in 2020, the
global COVID pandemic aﬀected the lives of all of us. However, our employees showed
exceptional resilience in adapting to remote working and they continue to provide an
uninterrupted service to our customers and support them through these diﬃcult times.

Bloomberg Transcript

In ﬁnancial terms the pandemic had a limited direct impact on our operating result of
around EUR50 million. Our balance sheet remains strong, the volatile markets and further
reduction of interest rates had a positive impact on the stock of capital which is a solvency
ratio and a negative impact on the ﬂow of capital or in other words OCG which amounted
to close to EUR1 billion in 2020.
We saw new sales in Japan and Europe rebound in the second half of 2020, which is
testament to how well our brokers and agents in particular have adapted to new digital
ways of reaching customers. The operating results for the second half of the year was up
more than 9% compared with the same period in 2019.
Strong results at Netherlands Life reﬂect a higher investment margin as well as lower
expenses. In our Non-life business the lower underwriting results in disability and
accident were partly oﬀset by lower claims in property and casualty and the EUR26 million
contribution of VIVAT Non-life, which became part of NN Group on the 1st of April.
The overall combined ratio was 95.7%, further expense savings were made across the
company allowing us to achieve the cost savings target of EUR400 million. As expected
and as already ﬂagged at the Capital Markets Day last year, operating capital generation
in 2020 was impacted by the exceptional market of circumstances and low interest rates.
On top of this in the second half of 2020 we saw higher claims in our disability portfolio,
higher new business strain in Japan as a result of improved sales. As well as the
suspension of dividend payments by NN Bank following the recommendation of the ECB.
This was partly compensated by the accelerated shift to higher yielding assets and higher
new business contribution from Insurance Europe.
Delﬁn will talk more about the various drivers of operating capital generation, later in the
presentation. But let me conﬁrm that the OCG of around EUR1 billion is very much in line
Page 2 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

with our expectations and we are still very much on track to reach our target of EUR1.5
billion of operating capital generation by 2023.
The year-end solvency ratio of -- is 210%, and this already reﬂects the deduction of the
proposed 2020 ﬁnal dividend of EUR1.47 per share. Our strong solvency position allows
for resilient capital returns in line with the commitments we have made in our dividend
policy. The 2020 full year dividend per share represents a growth of almost 8% on 2019,
and we have also announced today a new share buyback program of EUR250 million.
Let's turn to Slide 4. The new strategy that we presented at the Capital Markets Day in
June last year is geared to creating long-term value for all stakeholders. So in addition to
our ﬁnancial targets, we also measure our performance against non-ﬁnancial indicators,
because we believe that if we take good care of our customers, employees and society as
a whole, this also allows us to deliver solid long-term results for shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to provide an excellent customer experience through the challenges of the
pandemic and this is reﬂected in a broadly stable customer satisfaction score. I'm
particularly proud of our employee engagement, which increased substantially with an
overall score of 7.9%. We aim to contribute to the transition to a sustainable economy
through investing our assets responsibly, and we track this, based on the percentage of
ESG integrated assets under management which increased to 74%. And we continue to
play a part in supporting the communities in which we live and work through donations
and gifts.
We are pleased to have received external recognition for our ESG performance by again
being included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices both the World and Europe index.
We announced these targets in June last year, so we are still at an early stage of the
journey to meeting these objectives by 2023. However, we are working hard to improve
our performance in all areas, and we intend to report our progress regularly.
Now moving to Slide 5, all of our business units are implementing initiatives, supporting
our strategy to increase cash ﬂow generation and drive growth in attractive markets. We
took advantage of market opportunities in the ﬁrst half of the year to invest in investment
grade bonds, high yield bonds equity and emerging market debt.
We also made additional investments in mortgages, real estate and loans throughout the
year, bringing the total investments in higher yielding assets to around EUR8 billion in
2020. Most of which in Netherlands Life. The additional returns that these investments
generate are already visible in the higher investment margins.
In Non-Life, we are taking various actions to improve the results of the disability portfolios.
We are continuing our drive for eﬃciency across the organization. Additional measures
have been implemented in light of the pandemic. For example in Japan, we shifted to a
more digital branding strategy and restricted new hires to key areas only.
The 2020 results reﬂect the contribution of the recent acquisitions of VIVAT Non-life as
well as the acquired life and pension business in Slovakia and the Czech Republic in 2019.
Page 3 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

These transactions have delivered better than expected returns and the integration into
NN is progressing well. At the same time, we are committed to regularly assessing all of
our individual businesses against our ﬁnancial and strategic criteria, and we are
disciplined in deciding if we are the right owners.
Last week we announced the sale of our business in Bulgaria, as we believe this is in the
best interest of our local customers, business partners and employees as well as our
shareholders. Similarly, we sold our broker business in Turkey in the fourth quarter of last
year.
On the commercial side, we have launched many new products designed to meet
customer needs. Let me give you a few examples. We entered the general insurance
market in Romania with a new home insurance product. And in Japan, we have recently
introduced a second round of products that have been adapted to the revised tax
regulations in that country.
In the second half of the year NN Bank introduced a new label called Woonnu which
oﬀers mortgage solutions for the purchase or improvement of energy eﬃcient homes by
linking the mortgage interest rate to the property's energy label.

Bloomberg Transcript

Given the interest in the ﬁrst months, we are conﬁdent that this unique proposition will
show a healthy growth in the future. Responsible investment is at the core of the strategy
of NN Investment Partner, our asset manager. Investment performance was strong across
most funds in 2020, particularly in the sustainable and impact investing strategy,
underlining our belief that this approach is good for both the planet but also for returns.
I'd like to talk more about a commercial momentum on Slide 6. The COVID-19 restrictions
throughout 2020 meant developing new and improved ways to reach our customers and
supporting brokers and agents with digital tools and online sales processes. It is
encouraging to see that the sales both in Europe and Japan picked up again in the
second half of the year and that the value of new business also increased compared with
the same period in 2019 and the ﬁrst half of 2020.
The mortgage market in the Netherlands remains strong throughout 2020 and NN Bank
originated a record level of mortgages, passing the EUR8 billion mark for the ﬁrst time.
The majority of these mortgages are transferred to the investment portfolios of our
insurance companies and to the third-party mortgage fund oﬀered by NN IP.
Our asset managers saw strong inﬂows of new assets, bringing total assets under
management to EUR300 billion at the end of 2020. Performance across the diﬀerent
strategies was very strong. The over EUR10 billion of third party inﬂows was mainly in the
ﬁxed income and emerging market debt strategy.
Turning now to Slide 7. At our Capital Markets Day, we explained that a strong balance
sheet is one of our priorities as it allows for resilient and growing long-term capital
generation. We target operating capital generation of EUR1.5 billion in 2023 as well as
mid-single digit annual growth of operating capital generation over time. This is the basis
Page 4 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

for delivering on our dividend policy, which consists of a progressive dividend per share
and an annual share buyback of at least EUR250 million.

FINAL

The uncertainty caused by the pandemic led various regulators to request companies to
apply prudency around capital returns. We followed this advice and limited dividend
ﬂows from our subsidiaries to the holding during 2020.
At Group level we were able to fully resume our dividend payments to shareholders and a
share buyback program in August last year. Today, we are announcing a proposed 2020
ﬁnal dividend of EUR1.47 per share, which will be tabled at our Annual General Meeting
on the 20th of May. We have also announced a new EUR250 million share buyback
program.
We have made a balanced decision on capital returns, taking several inputs into
consideration. On the one hand, we have observed unprecedented market volatility in
2020 as well as regulatory caution with respect to capital returns.
On the other hand, our balance sheet and capital generation is strong and resilient. All in
all our commitments to grow long-term capital generation overtime in combination with
the capital return announcements made today underpin our attractive investment
proposition.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that, I will pass you over to Delﬁn.

Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, David and good morning everyone. Let me start as usual with the movement
in NN Group's solvency ratio in the second half of 2020. Our solvency ratio remains
strong at 210% at the end of 2020 versus 221% at the 30 June. There are quite a number
of items that have impacted the ratio. So let me take you through them.
Firstly, operating capital generation added 7 percentage points to the ratio. I will talk
more about the drivers of operating capital generation later. On balance, market
movements had a neutral eﬀect on the ratio, mainly reﬂecting the positive impact of
higher equity valuation oﬀset by the negative impact of lower interest rates.
The category Other includes model and assumption changes and the reversal of the
corporate tax rate change in the Netherlands as well as the additional capital requirement
due to the move to higher yielding assets. Capital ﬂows to shareholders reduced the ratio
by 6 percentage points and represents the deduction of the proposed 2020 ﬁnal
dividend as well as the remaining part of the share buyback program that we resumed in
August. Then we have included the bank in the calculation of the Group solvency ratio at
the end of 2020, in line with the new requirements of the Dutch Central Bank. This had a
negative impact to the ratio of around 9 percentage points. Our solvency ratio before
capital ﬂows and inclusion of NN Bank actually increased to 225%.

Page 5 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

Let's now turn to Slide 10, which shows the movement of the ratio over the full year. The
solvency ratio was 224% at the start of 2020. Looking at the movements during the year,
operating capital generation contributed 14 percentage points to the ratio. This is lower
than we expected at the start of the year, but is in line with the guidance that we gave at
the Capital Markets Day and reﬂects the lower interest rates and the impact of the
pandemic.
We experienced extreme volatility in the markets, especially in the ﬁrst six months of the
year, but as we've seen before the longer term market impact is relatively small, driven by
our conservative asset mix. Market variances reduced the ratio by 4 percentage points in
2020, mainly due to the negative impact from credit spread movements, partly
compensated by higher equity valuations.

Bloomberg Transcript

The category Other includes various items. The main ones being the longevity
transactions, the reversal of the government's planned corporate tax rate reduction in the
Netherlands and the lowering of the UFR. On balance, all these items had a positive
impact on the ratio of 8 percentage points. Capital ﬂows to shareholders of in total EUR1.4
billion reduced the ratio by 17 percentage points. We also had a couple of non-recurrent
events. One of them the acquisition of VIVAT Non-life and the other the inclusion of the
NN Bank in the Group solvency calculations. Together this reduced the ratio by 15
percentage points. Altogether these movements brought the ratio to 210% at the end of
2020.
Let's now discuss the operating capital generation in more detail on Slide 11. Total
operating capital generation in the second half of 2020 amounted to EUR450 million,
compared with EUR653 million in the same period of 2019.
In the table on this slide as you can see the split by segment. At our Capital Markets Day, I
already guided for a dip in operating capital generation in 2020, as a result of the
exceptional market circumstances during the year. There was a net negative impact from
the UFR drag and risk margin release due to the lower interest rates. This was partly
compensated by the higher investment returns generated from the shift to higher yielding
assets.
You can also see this in the breakdown by source that we have included in the appendix
on Slide 20. Other items aﬀecting operating capital generation in 2020 were the
unfavorable developments in the Non-life disability and accident portfolio as well as the
new business strain following higher sales in Japan.
In addition there was no contribution from the bank last year, as it suspended its dividend
payments on the recommendation of the regulator. On the other hand operating capital
generation was positively impacted by a higher new business contribution in Insurance
Europe.
The next slide shows the movement in the cash capital position of the holding, which was
EUR1.2 billion at the end of December 2020, compared with EUR1.3 billion at the end of

Page 6 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

June. And therefore, remains comfortably within our target range of EUR0.5 billion to
EUR1.5 billion.

FINAL

Total remittances received from subsidiaries amounted to EUR592 million in the second
half of 2020, bringing free cash ﬂow to EUR613 million. As David mentioned earlier, we
followed the advice of regulators in the light of the uncertainty caused by the pandemic,
and limited the payment of dividends by some subsidiaries, including an NN Bank.
We intend to pay any suspended dividends in the future as and when the situation allows.
As usual details of all the remittances upstream by each segment can be found in the
appendix of this presentation.
The main cash outﬂow in the second half of the year was the payment of the 2020 interim
dividend in September which included the catch-up of the suspended 2019 ﬁnal dividend
as well as the shares repurchased under the buyback program.

Bloomberg Transcript

During the full year, we received EUR1.3 billion of remittances from subsidiaries and
returned EUR1 billion to shareholders. Besides these capital ﬂows to shareholders, we also
had other cash outﬂows during 2020 for the acquisition of VIVAT Non-life and for the
redemption of EUR300 million of senior debt.
Moving on to the next slide, I will take you through the IFRS ﬁnancial results of the Group.
Starting on the left, NN Group's operating result increased to EUR963 million from
EUR881 million in the second half of 2019, which included EUR54 million of non-recurring
beneﬁts, while the second half of 2020 includes just EUR8 million of non-recurring
beneﬁts as well as an estimated negative impact of COVID-19 of around EUR23 million.
Excluding all these items, the increase of the operating result was mainly driven by the
shift to higher yielding assets and higher dividends in the investment margin of
Netherlands Life. On the right hand side, you can see that the net result for the second
half of 2020 was EUR1.3 billion, the increase compared with the second half of 2019 is
explained by the higher operating result as well as by a higher contribution from nonoperating items, including a EUR100 million provision release following the completion of
our tax audit of a legacy entity in Australia.
I will now take you through the operating performance of the individual segments on
Slide 14. Starting as usual with Netherlands Life which reported an operating result of
EUR500 million versus EUR397 million in the second half of 2019. I already mentioned, the
higher investment margin as a result of the shift to higher yielding assets.
On top of that the life company managed to reduce its expenses further with the aim of
lowering its cost base in line with the portfolio run-oﬀ. The result of Netherlands Non-life
decreased to EUR130 million due to lower underwriting result in disability and accident
where we saw higher claims in the Group income portfolio, as well as the impact of the
reduction of the discount rate used to calculate D&A technical provisions.

Page 7 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

On the other hand, there were lower claims in the Fire and Motor portfolios, and the
inclusion of VIVAT Non-life contributed EUR26 million. The combined ratio was 95.7% for
the second half of 2020.
Insurance Europe's operating result increased to EUR152 million, reﬂecting a higher
investment margin in Belgium as well as higher pension fees in Romania. The operating
result of Japan Life was EUR102 million, which is an increase of 6% excluding currency
eﬀects. This was driven by lower surrenders, reﬂecting increased persistency as well as
lower expenses.
Asset management's operating result decreased to EUR78 million, mainly due to lower
fees as the asset mix moved more to lower margin strategies as well as ongoing fee
pressure. The operating result of banking decreased to EUR74 million as the comparative
period in 2019 included EUR26 million of non-recurrent premiums on mortgage sales to
NN IP Dutch Residential Mortgage Fund. On the other hand, the interest result was higher
thanks to lower funding cost as well as higher penalty interest as customers continue to
reﬁnance their loans, taking advantage of the low mortgage rates.
Finally, the operating result of the segment Other was minus EUR47 million, mainly
reﬂecting the higher operating result of the reinsurance business, which included an EUR8
million release of our claims reserve related to the non-life disability portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

As David already indicated, the impact of COVID-19 on NN Group's operating results has
been limited with a full year negative impact of around EUR50 million.
The last thing I want to talk about is cost reductions, which are shown in the next slide. At
the Capital Markets Day in 2017 we announced our objective to reduce the 2016 cost base
of the business units in the scope of the Delta Lloyd integration by EUR350 million by the
end of 2020. And we later increased the target to EUR400 million.
With additional expense savings of EUR23 million in the second half of 2020, we have
now achieved total cost reductions of EUR404 million, just ahead of our target. This does
not mean the end of expense reductions. On the contrary, we will continue to focus on
increasing eﬃciency throughout the organization and this is reﬂected in the segment cost
guidance that we have given.
I will now pass you back to David for the wrap-up.

David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Thank you, Delﬁn. Amid a global pandemic, our employees, brokers and agents showed
incredibly adaptability to the new reality of remote working and online contact. And at the
same time have continued to support our customers with excellent products and services,
which is reﬂected in the ongoing commercial momentum shown by our businesses.

Page 8 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

NN Group has also shown great resilience during a turbulent year. Our balance sheet
remains strong in our ﬁnancial performance has held up well. This allows us to deliver
attractive and growing capital returns to our shareholders. Today we announced a
proposed ﬁnal dividend of EUR1.47 per share as well as a new EUR250 million share
buyback program. The new strategy for NN Group that we presented in June is geared to
creating long-term value for all our stakeholders. All in all we have made a promising start
with the implementation of the strategy and have a solid foundation for delivering on
both, our ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial targets.
I will now hand you back to the operator to open up the call for your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you Mr.Knibbe. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now start the question-and-answer
session. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, in the interest of time, we kindly ask you to
limit the number of questions to two. Your questions will be answered in the order that
they are received. (Operator Instructions)

Bloomberg Transcript

And the ﬁrst question is from Mr.Benoit Petrarque Kepler Cheuvreux. Go ahead please sir.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning all, so two questions on my side. The ﬁrst one is on the -- on the UFR
drag going into 2021. So you had a kind of EUR130 million deterioration of the UFR drag
between H1 and H2. And obviously you use a monthly reference for the interest rate to
calculate this UFR drag in H2 and going into 2021 with the, increase of interest rate,
roughly 30 bps up versus year-end, how much kind of will be the drag on the new basis.
So, is the EUR560 million deﬁnitely lower starting into -- going into 2021. Could you help
us to quantify this UFR drag into 2021 that will be extremely useful.
And then the second one is on the investment spreads again on OCG, clearly 2020 has
been a good year in terms of -- for the -- on the investment spread side with various
spreads especially in H1 and again looking into 2021, do you expect a bit of spread
decrease versus the levels we've seen in 2020? I think, the corporate spreads and spreads
are relatively low as we speak and I was wondering if there is a small negative eﬀect to be
expected there. Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, Benoit. Let me give the ﬁrst question on UFR drag to Delﬁn and
Bernhard will cover the question on investment spread in OCG.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}
Page 9 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

Yes. Thank you very much, Benoit. Indeed, the changes in interest rate has quite a
signiﬁcant impact on the UFR drag and I mean, we'll see the 30 basis points that we have
seen already over the year. That will give you approximately EUR140 million increase on
the OCG. But of course, keep in mind that interest rates are all the time moving in one
direction or another and it's always good to keep, more of a medium term trend but
indeed, ceteris paribus, the increase of the 30 basis points, would be around 150 million,
impact on funds on OCG.

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Benoit and on your question on investment spread and how this comes through in OCG.
Our investments in 2020 they are 8.7 billion in higher yielding assets that David referred
to as we have done these investments over the year, we expect the full impact to come
become visible now in 2021, and we assume this to be an uplift of 170 million in 2021,
you're right. The risk premiums are moving but the impact should be in this order of
magnitude in 2021.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Okay. So I think there's another EUR50 million coming in on the OCG from the
reinvestment but on the stock of investments, you do not see any speciﬁc pressure from
the current low spread level. That's what you say?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, right.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes. Okay, cool. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Ms.Fulin Liang from Morgan Stanley, go ahead please.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you. I have two questions. Sorry to come back to the UFR drag, just so I am
clear. So in 2020, you reported of the whole year reported about 1 billion UFR drag. But
presumably in a normal year if I -- looking at a normalized, UFR drag in your sensitivity you
did actually disclose that every 15 bps of drops of UFR would have about 300 million drag
on own fund. Is that EUR300 million? Let's say if the interest rate remained ﬂat, that
EUR300 million would be a drag, would be a normalized number, right? And 2020, you
have an actual above EUR700 million, mainly because of the interest rates dropped by
maybe 40 bps over the whole year. If interest rates actually goes up from here, which
already actually went up from here, then we would see some positive impact on the UFR
drag on top of that EUR300 million normalized. Is that the right way to understand it?
And then secondly is on your non-life, I spoke to IR earlier today. So I understand the
some of the so-called lower capital generation on the non-life is mainly because you
Page 10 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

basically cancelled the internal reinsurance, which basically -- which would -- you basically
cancel out some of the pass-through to external re-insurance? So you essentially retained
bit more business with yourself. Is that your plan going forward? Are you and presumably
that will have positive OCG contribution in the future, is that fair? Thank you.

FINAL

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Thank you, Fulin. Let me give these two questions to Delﬁn.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, thank you very much Fulin for your question. Maybe, because there is a lot of details
here, it will be helpful that you call the investor relations to get into the details with more - with a bit more details, but indeed the sensitivity of the UFR drag to the changes in
interest rates is quite signiﬁcant. And from I mean the sensitivity that we gave you on the
increase of 30 basis points increasing by approximately 150 million. This is based on the
sensitivities, on the OCG that we have published and that will be an increase, from let's
say a decrease in the UFR drag from what was the situation at the end of 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

In any event, I think it's fair to say that even with the volatility in these interest rates, I think
that it is very important to highlight because this is always going to change from one
mode to another that we are comfortable with the target that we have set in terms of the
OCG for 2023, but also that we expect a quite a rebound from 2020 that is for diﬀerent
factors that we could get in to a very depressed level. But we see OCG improving from
mainly near every segment, into next year and towards 2023.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, and then the second question on capital generation for non-life related to the
internal reinsurance, Delﬁn?

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Non-life, as you have seen has had a good result in terms of operating result. But in
terms of operating capital generation has been quite depressed and one of the factors
there for the full year, the reinsurance contract, the stop loss reassurance contract for the
individual disability, which was a three years contract and terminated came to an end, at
the end of 2020.
As a result, the solvency capital requirement, the capital requirement increased and
increased substantially. So that was EUR65 million that is a non-recurrent item that
happened in 2020 due to the increase in the solvency capital requirement.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr.William Hawkins, KBW. Go ahead please.
Page 11 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hi guys. Thank you very much. I apologize, I think we all know there's more to an end than
the ultimate forward rates. But my ﬁrst question is on that. Delﬁn, so far your answers have
been about sensitivity to changes in interest rates year-to-date. Can I just come back, if
nothing had changed? I think I'm right, ultimately the UFR is something that will amortize
to zero at some point in the future. So if there weren't any change in the markets, what
would this 978 million be in 2021 and 2022. I'm just trying to get a feel for how it
amortizes down. And I'm assuming I'm right, one day it will be zero. And adjunct of that,
can you just remind us what is the beneﬁt of the UFR to your Solvency II ratio. You
wouldn't get any of these questions if the UFR didn't exist. But maybe that's another
point.
Second question, please. Can you just remind us about how you're balancing capital
distribution with M&A plans? I know you can't be too speciﬁc on M&A plans, but there is a
worry given precedence for NN that you say good stuﬀ about buybacks and then they get
suspended because you need to raise capital to do deals, there's no hint of that in the
past. So bluntly speaking, I'm just trying to gauge the risk of suspending buybacks for
M&A and to the extent that I suppose a more precise question from that is can you remind
us what your internal resources would be for any transactions before it started becoming
vulnerable for the buyback? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you, William. Let me start with the question on M&A plans and what you call
capital distribution, and then Delﬁn will come back on the UFR question and UFR beneﬁt
to the ratio.
Well, in general all of our plans are based on organic growth and including the targets
that we have set and we have very strict, criteria, strategic and ﬁnancial criteria before we
would embark on M&A. If you look at our capital return, we have a very clear capital
return policy and we're very committed to this. We're very serious around this. And this is
around a commitment to return to shareholders, but obviously also to keep long-term
stable returns. Now this policy is around progressive dividend and around an annual
recurring share buyback of minimum EUR250 million and additional capital also to return
unless we see value creating opportunities.
Now, if you we take this commitment serious, like we have shown in 2020. And I think in
2020 we had very challenging market circumstances, there was the VIVAT acquisition. Of
course, there was the senior debt of EUR300 million, it was not reﬁnanced. But still we
obviously kept the 250 million share buyback ongoing. So, I think that also shows that we
take our commitment very, very serious. Yes, in terms of internal resources for
transactions, yes, we're not going to speculate on this but clearly we have a strong
balance sheet. We have ﬂexibility in there. But at the end of the day it is -- this is really
about that on the one hand we have our organic growth plans and any potential M&A
would really have to meet both ﬁnancial and strategic criteria before we would embark on
that. Delﬁn on the UFR.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}
Page 12 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Yes. Bill, thanks for your question. The UFR I mean ﬁrst of January it decreased by 15 basis
points. That in itself has a positive impact of approximately EUR25 million on our
operating capital generation. The beneﬁt of the UFR changes of course with the level of
interest rates. It was certainly higher at year-end that it is now based on the higher interest
rates. The important thing is to know that this decrease is expected to run down in 10
years, 15 years. So you're absolutely right. After year 15, there is basically not more beneﬁt
coming from the UFR but equally important, it means that there is no UFR drag in our
operating capital generation and the capital generation, therefore, will keep be increasing
gradually over that same period of -- same period of time.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you guys. That's helpful.

Operator
The next question is from Mr.Farooq Hanif, Credit Suisse. Go ahead please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi everybody. Thank you very much. Just going back on our favorite question on OCG. So
when I add up some of the numbers that you've told us so far. I think, you said, 30 bps is a
EUR140 million on the UFR drag. I think, you said EUR170 million on reinvestment, in
higher risk assets. And then of course, you had some one-oﬀs like the SCR impact of the
internal reinsurance, in terms of the ﬂow. I mean, when I add those numbers up, you're
getting to quite a considerably higher number than the 1 billion guidance that you already
gave. So is that sounding about right? I mean, I realize that there's going to be volatility,
but getting to roughly 1.3 billion, does that sound to you to be achievable target based on
the numbers you've just told us. And how much more re-risking, I mean are we going to
see a similar sort of level every year?
So, sort of generally coming back on those questions and then secondly going back to
Will's question on M&A. I mean, being more speciﬁc even more, I mean, clearly you've
been linked in the press with targets in Eastern Europe. And I just kind of wondered about
your ambitions there or your ability really to integrate given that you've just done a deal.
Could you comment further? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning Farooq. Let me just say a couple of things on the OCG ﬁrst and then
give it to Delﬁn and then after that I'll come back on M&A. So on OCG, the number we
came out with of close to 1 billion is very much in-line with our own internal expectation.
And as Delﬁn also said, we reconﬁrm our target of 1.5 billion that we set in the summer.
And just as a reminder, where is this increase do we expect to come from, it's obviously
the UFR and the portfolio development, a positive eﬀect from both the lower UFR, the
annual reduction as well as the run-oﬀ of the portfolio.
So that's one element, of course the other element indeed is the shift to higher yielding
assets at a 170 million that was mentioned, it is on a full year basis. Then improvements in
Page 13 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

non-life both under-writing and expenses and then of course, there is the inclusion of the
bank which didn't have a free cash ﬂow or OCG in 2020. So that is another driver and
then of course new business, the new business in Europe continuing to sell a proﬁtable
new business. So these are all important drivers which make us conﬁrm the EUR1.5 billion
target of OCG.

FINAL

So, let me give it also to Delﬁn then.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

There is not much more to add to this. Indeed, I mean just maybe to complement, the
investments, the move to higher yielding assets actually had estimated around EUR120
million positive impact on the OCG in 2020. EUR170 million as David has explained, is the
annualized level for that. So, when you look at '21 compared to 2020, you can already
expect another 50 million or so additional investment margin. And particularly non-life
was really depressed in terms of OCG in 2020 for many, circumstances. The impact on
disability and accident actually on a Solvency II basis, came a bit higher than under IFRS.
But more importantly, the 65 million increase in capital requirement that has been
mentioned and it will come. So, the cost savings for non-life coming from the acquisition
of VIVAT non-life. They are still to come through together with improvement on
underwritings. So there is quite an upside, for the non-life contribution to operating
capital generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, I think -- but I think, these are the main elements so that makes us conﬁdent.
And that was of course, if on top of that you see some increase in interest rates. That will
make that journey easier, but we're not counting on that to remain.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Delﬁn. And then on M&A and ability to integrate a business, we've just
done a deal. Just to set the stage, I mean, have we done a small bolt-on acquisition in
Czech and Slovakia with Aegon that has progressing well. It's actually have -- we had
quite some beneﬁts already from that deal. We just started also the integration of VIVAT,
which as you might have seen also is already adding to our results.
So these two items the integration is actually progressing well, is that by itself a factor?
No, I mean the non-life company obviously in the Netherlands is actively integrating the
business and then for Czech and Slovakia there's still some ongoing integration activities
on the back of the Aegon deal. In general, I wouldn't say that -- that is now an issue. What
is at the end of the day very important is our own ﬁnancial criteria and strategic criteria
that are determining whether we would enter into M&A. And please keep in mind that,
really our base case is organic growth. So that is our base case and you've also seen from
the deals, I think that we've done in the past that we would only do that if they make
strategically sense and when we can make an attractive return. By the way, M&A also
includes divestments and we're actively looking at our portfolio. You might have seen that
also we have divested our broker business in Turkey and recently our Bulgarian life and
pension business as well.

Page 14 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is from Mr.Michael Huttner Berenberg. Go ahead, please.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you very much. A follow-up question because you have answered several. The -two things, one, there is little questions. The mortgages, you say the half on the year, but
in the second half, the mortgage origination level, unless I read the --

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Sorry Michael. We have trouble hearing you. Can you maybe speak up a bit?

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Is this better?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, it's a bit better.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Sorry about that. So mortgages level in the second half I think, and the software mortgage
origination. So by -- what's happening there? And then the beneﬁts in the Turkey and
Bulgaria disposals, you mentioned that Turkey is already in the numbers. But maybe you
could talk a little bit about the beneﬁts --

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Sorry Michael, sorry Michael. We cannot -- we cannot hear you well. Maybe it's best that
you dial-in again to try and reconnect and we'll make sure we'll get your question, but we
can't hear you right now.

Operator
The next question is from Mr.Ashik Musaddi, JP Morgan. Go ahead please.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you, David. Thank you, and hello, David. Just a couple of questions I have is
ﬁrst of all, how do I think about dividend? Now clearly you have grown the dividend at 8%
this year. So the does that mean that 8% is more or less what you are expecting when you
gave the guidance of mid-single digit plus the lower share count related growth. Is that
something we can think about as a normal dividend growth that we should be expecting
in a normal market situation. So that's the ﬁrst question.
Page 15 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

The second question is on M&A, now clearly you've been linked with Aviva Poland, which
I think is an asset which would make strategic and ﬁnancial sense to you. But how do we
think about your funding capacity for that? I mean one thing is that your SCR has gone up,
your own funds has gone up. So a lot of leverage capacity has opened up for your -- for
you at the moment. So, how do we think about funding capacity? How much excess
capital you have at the moment you believe how much debt capacity you have? Would
you consider doing -- raising equity if you need to do that M&A or you would mainly do it
in-house and you don't see much issues with that. And given that it's would be a
reasonable size acquisition, do you have any sort of hurdles in terms of ROE et cetera -what you would want to achieve with that with any such big size acquisition? And just one
more question on the Japan recovery. I mean, how much -- I mean Japan recovery has
been pretty strong this year after a soggy 2019. So, how do we think about that going
forward? Do you think that we are in the end state now or there is still some a lot of
uncertainties on that. Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you Ashik. Let me ﬁrst -- give the ﬁrst questions to Delﬁn and then I'll come
back on Japan.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, Ashik, thank you for your questions. Yeah, we indicated that was a mid-term
guidance of growing, OCG and as a consequence free cash ﬂows mid-single digit over
time, and we also indicated that of course, because of the share buyback the growth of
dividends per share is obviously always, above that level. So I don't think there was
anything unusual on the ordinary dividend paid in 2020 as full -- as full dividend. For your
second question, I think the way I will answer it is in terms of our ﬁnancial ﬂexibility in
general. I mean, 210% solvency ratio has also to be understood in combination with the
sensitivities to market shocks that we publish every six months. And you have it as part of
the press release within the appendix of the press release today and our risk proﬁle. So on
that sense, I think it is fair to say that we are very comfortable with the level of solvency
and that we can absorb some deviations and we have also very well proved it in an
environment of decreasing interest rates.
In terms of our tiering capacity, if you like, we have the ability of increase up to EUR1.3
billion in restricted Tier 1 and we have depending how you look at, Tier 2 you look at Tier
2 and Tier 3 together is approximately EUR1 billion at the year end. If you were to max the
Tier 3 capacity then it's another EUR0.5 billion of Tier 2 capacity.
In addition to that our leverage ratio decreased slightly, this at the end of year-end versus
June. As you know, we reduced the level of senior debt by EUR300 million in June earlier
this year. So, I think there is no doubt that there is ﬁnancial capacity to continue with our
regular capital distribution to shareholders as part of our plan and if necessarily to take
advantage of opportunities if they present themselves.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Page 16 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

Yes. Thank you, Delﬁn. Then on Japan indeed Ashik I think, we've seen a strong recovery
of sales in the second half. VNB grew to EUR46 million versus EUR18 million in 2019. Now
granted of course, 2019 was a very low level because the tax reform had just come out,
but the good news is that we've always said that we believe that we can get the sales on a
much stronger path also with the new tax rules. And we're starting to see this coming
through.
So the EUR46 million is the ﬁrst step. We're also introducing or we have introduced in
February. So more products in the COLI space that we're actually optimistic on that that
will further support the growth of our Japanese sales. So, we feel we're still on track to
deliver the EUR150 million of VNB that we've set as a target for 2023.
And I wouldn't say I mean there's clearly uncertainties in the world everywhere, but I
wouldn't say that Japan from that point of view. There's more uncertainty in Japan than in
other markets. I would say it's comparable. The good news is that we are well on track
and we see actually our sales channels being very active typically brokers already do well
banks are starting to pick up as well. And banks have been across the globe less active in
insurance sales, but actually November and December, we've also seen, trying to see a
pickup of bank sales. So that further supports let's say the trajectory that we're on in
Japan.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

That's very good. Thank you, David Thanks Delﬁn.

Operator
The next question is from Mr.Steven Haywood, HSBC. Go ahead please. Collective.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Looking at your operating capital generation, you had a negative
EUR22 million experience variance in there, could you describe where this came from?
And also did you take any mortality assumption changes or longevity assumption changes
in the Netherlands last year because of the improved mortality tables. And then on the
NN Re EUR30 million dividend, can you just tell me where that came from? Which
business unit? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yeah, Steven. Thank you, Delﬁn.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks Steven. In terms of the negative experience variance in Netherlands life, I
think you have to take it, it's always a volatile item. Actually for the full year, because there
were some, if you like, positive experiences in the ﬁrst half and this has been negative. But
these are driven oﬀ diﬀerent factors. There are some related to lapses and some other, a
small considerations there, but overall you should expect this to be around zero and as I

Page 17 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

said for the full year for Netherlands life it was I think a minus EUR3 million or something,
very, very limited. We had, good technical result and it was on the actual, in 2020, we
have some positive longevity results within the technical margin. However, we did not
really change our longevity assumptions because of the new mortality table that came in
the Netherlands. So, we're looking carefully into the no doubt recent experience of
increased mortality. We are a bit cautious but I must say that there could be some upside
on reviewing this within '21.
In terms of the dividend from NN Re, I mentioned before the negative that there was in
the capital requirement from non-life because of the cancellation of the reinsurance
contract for the stop loss reinsurance contract for individual disability. Here, you see the
other side of the same coin as 75% of that reinsurance contract was reinsured with NN Re.
NN Re has also got a release of their own capital requirement in addition, other parts of
their business performed relatively well and that explains the somewhat elevated
dividend from NN Re in the second half.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Dave.

Operator
The next question is from Mr.Colm Kelly, UBS. Go ahead please, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Well, thanks a lot. Thanks David and Delﬁn for taking my questions. The ﬁrst one is on the
move to higher yielding assets, clearly this is key to the OCG target. In the past, I think NN
has predominantly done this through both residential mortgages and loans. But given the
size of the UFR drag now, does it require an even more accelerated strategy around
investing in illiquid assets beyond the typical illiquid assets that you have historically
invested in or rather does it require more branching out into other illiquid credits where
maybe NN doesn't have a stronger track record in? Related to that, does the regulator
have full sight into the types of the illiquid credit, NN is looking to move into over the
course of the 2023 plan? And are they comfortable with that? And then my last question
is related to M&A and thanks for your comments on ﬁnancial capacity. My question is
more related to the disposal strategy, you mentioned the sale of the life and pensions
business in Bulgaria. I appreciate it is small, but can you provide more detail on the
rationale behind the sale of that business? Was it a case of market positioning i.e. a lack of
scale? Was it due to lack of market or business growth or was it due to insuﬃcient returns
on capital? Some more detail on that would be appreciated. Thanks.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Sure. So let me start on the question on Bulgaria and then Bernhard can talk about the
experience around high yielding assets. Yeah, so the thinking around Bulgaria, well, as
you know, Bulgaria is a relatively small country with seven million people. And also we
have a relatively small business there. The life business is small and then we have a
pension position. So the combination of a relatively small market and a relatively small

Page 18 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

business unit was the reason why we decided to divest. It was not related to a
commitment -- broader commitment on the region, but speciﬁcally on Bulgaria itself.
The business itself, it was proﬁtable, in terms of new business margin and returns, it made
did make 3 million proﬁt. So from that point of view it wasn't a -- so it wasn't insuﬃcient
return on capital, but it was really the size and, to be honest also the potential upside or
lack of upsides that we saw in that market to get to a suﬃcient scale. I think we got a,
good price for it, 77.7 million. I think it is a good value for that. So that's also helpful.
And to be honest, I think it's also important KBC has plans in Bulgaria. And they I think it's
therefore also -- they are also a better owner that they can combine it with their business.
They're also a better owner for this business than we are. So those were some of the
rationales behind the sale of Bulgaria.
Then on high yielding assets Bernhard?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yeah Colm, to give you some background on the strategy behind higher-yielding assets in
2020, we invested an additional EUR3 billion in mortgages. So that's also going forward
or part of our strategy to build up our illiquid portfolio. But we also invested in EUR2.5
billion corporate bonds emerging market debt and around EUR2 billion in equities real
estate. So we are really looking into a broader investment universe in this strategy. We
have planned as part of our strategy until 2023 to step up OCG contribution by EUR200
million and like Delﬁn also pointed to, the assumption is that given the UFR drag that we
are not really have to change here our strategy, but as we are so well on track, and we
also see ﬂexibility going forward. We are considering in a controlled way also to look into
the next years. As this is the Risk Manager speaking, you can be sure that we do
everything within our risk bearing capacity and tolerances and limits and also by the way
reviewing our investment universe is part of our day-to-day business. So again, look, we're
here very well on track.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

I am sorry, just a follow-up on the regulatory side of the boat. Look, as you say, it is
branching out into other types of illiquids increasingly going forward than in the past.
That is within your risk appetite and tolerance or I assume from a DNB perspective, are
comfortable that with the path you're taking around the asset portfolio?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. So in all of the approaches or also discussions, this has never been a topic.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Page 19 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

The next question is from Mr.Robin van den Broek, Mediobanca. Go ahead please sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Sir. Yes, sir. Good morning everybody. One follow-up question and I think the question is
not too dissimilar from what Farooq was trying to get at. I am just going to ask it a little bit
diﬀerently, for life your OCG in H2 was 266 million. If I just multiply it by two and I add the
140 million UFR improvement driven by rates, and I add the EUR25 million due to the 15
bps UFR reduction, I already get to EUR700 million. And I guess, I have to add something
related to the negative experience that we just talked about and there's still some residual
re-risking beneﬁts to come on top of that level. Could you just quantify those for me,
please? And maybe a small clariﬁcation question about the EUR140 million or EUR150
million from UFR drag that you mentioned, I presume that it includes also the VA still
being at a lower average according to current levels, H1 this year versus H2 last year
because I think that was one of the key things that was a bit of a surprise in the UFR drag
move in H2 you're reporting today?
So that's question one and then secondly, more generically speaking the sensitivities you
provided are more for parallel moves. So I was just wondering if we were assuming
steepening, I appreciate that you in your sensitivities have disclosed that for your
Solvency II ratio itself, that's a negative but should we also assume that if there would be
steepening? That's your OCG generation would be -- would basically get stronger relative
to your sensitivities as well. And lastly the SCR contribution in H2 versus H1 was strong. I
was just wondering if in any way that could be driven by the new pension agreement
where DB basically is now -- I think entirely dead and will not be renewed. So is that SCR
contribution going to be structurally higher versus last year's level so to speak? Thank
you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you, Robin. Let me give the ﬁrst question on life OCG to Delﬁn and then
Bernhard will cover the sensitivities. And I will come -- of course ﬁrst come back on the
pension reform in broad terms. So let's ﬁrst go to Delﬁn.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Robin. On the operating capital generation with about life indeed, you
should not take the second half as a normal level. So I think it will be better to consider
that the full year as this extraordinary eﬀect on the life experience is level out. The shift to
higher yielding assets for '21 for Netherlands life could easily be EUR50 million higher
than it is for 2020. And we also have the EUR25 million additional coming from the
decrease of the UFR, the 15 basis points already happened in January. So that together is
already, 75 million, of course and I think it's always dangerous, to provide this guidance in
relation of the impact of the change of the interest rates on the UFR because indeed there
are many factors aﬀecting there, including as well the level of the volatility adjustment but
no doubt as the volatility adjustment a decrease, of course the spread on the investment
assets also tends to improve. So overall, we have a target for life of 900 million for 2023
and we feel comfortable with that. The second question about sensitivities, I think it's
better that Bernhard takes it.

Page 20 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yeah Robin. So the steepening is -- so now, we are duration long meaning the steepening
of the curve is impacting our own funds here and as pointed out negatively. But that is
mainly because of the diﬀerence between -- then the discounting of our liabilities versus
the investments on the long-end and steepening, then also really leads exactly to this
reduction of the UFR drag over time. It depends a little bit on where it is. If it's a 20 to 30
year bucket, so a lot of our liabilities are -- it will be higher than if it's a 30 to 40 year
bucket and I don't have a number for it. But conceptually the -- this is moving in the
direction that you suggested.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Okay, then the question on the pension reform related to the SCR. No, the pension
reform, and I know there's a lot in the media and there's a lot of talk about. But that -- the
implementation of that is expected in well, I guess 2026 maybe '25, but probably more
'26. The pension reform by itself conﬁrms, of course that the deﬁned beneﬁt is ceasing to
exist and that everything will move to DC. But in terms of practically, what has been
happening in the life business that was already the case.

Bloomberg Transcript

We did very limited deﬁned-beneﬁt business. Every now and then we still do some
renewals, but that's typically only in the context of -- to buy the employers some time to
work it out either with his workers council or union to agree on the new pension scheme.
So basically, we already see a slow run-oﬀ of the deﬁned beneﬁt book and a but all the
new business is pretty much already in DC. Actually we had a very good DC renewal
season.
In terms of new business and renewal our market share is, while we don't have the ﬁnal
numbers yet, because it's early in the year, but we do estimate that we will have again at
least a 40% market share. So, we're doing well in the DC space in the overall, DC assets is
now growing to 24.6 billion. So to make a long story short the transition from DB to DC is
ongoing and it will continue to go on but keep in mind that the DB business most
companies leave their DB book paid up. So therefore it's really the new accruals that go to
DC, but the run oﬀ of the DB book by itself goes slower basically with the retirement of
individual employees.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks guys.

Operator
There are no further questions, Mr.Knibbe

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Okay. All right, then we will then start wrapping up and we will of course circle back to the
one person that we lost unfortunately on the call.

Page 21 of 22



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So thank you very much. Thank you for all your questions. And before we close the call,
let me just wrap up by saying that the strong ﬁnancial performance and the capital
position reported by NN Group today allows us to deliver on our commitment to
attractive capital returns for shareholders and long-term value creation for all of our
stakeholders. Have a good day.

Page 22 of 22

