Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Claude Jacques Chevre , Unknown
Clemens Jungsthofel, CFO & Member of Executive Board
Jean-Jacques Henchoz , CEO & Chairman of the Executive Board
Karl Steinle , Head of Corporate Communications
Klaus Wilhelm Miller, Unknown
Sven Althoff , Member of the Executive Board
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Andrew James Ritchie , Analyst
Henry Heathfield, Analyst
Iain Pearce , Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Fraser Hardcastle , Analyst

Presentation
Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Hello. Good morning, to the Hannover Re's Investors Day. I wish you a very warm welcome
on behalf of the entire management team. Again this is a virtual format because of the
pandemic. So we are not broadcasting from Copenhagen as originally planned. We are in
Hanover. I'm happy that so many of you are already participating. This Investor Day is our
24th edition, and therefore, a long-standing tradition of Hannover Re. And as everybody is
talking about purpose, the purpose of this event is very clear.
First of all, we want to provide additional information, we want to demonstrate
transparency, and we want to also advance the dialogue with you. We want to increase
the understanding of our business the market development and also our positioning in
our future prospects. As this may take a while, we have scheduled for the next four hours.
For an event to be viewed as helpful, in particular from your side, it needs a number of
ingredients. It's just when I teamed up with my 12 years old daughter last week to bake a
pie, you need to have a delicious and appealing recipe, a proper time frame and a good
allocation of resources.

Page 1 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

But most important, you need to have the right ingredients, the basics, but also the herbs,
the spices and sugar, of course. I do realize that this analogy has some limitations
because it's a lot easier to make a pie. Nonetheless, I hope we have some delicious
thought -- a delicious food for thought for you. Just a few words on today's agenda.
Our CEO, Jean-Jacques Henchoz, will kick things off and bring you up to speed with
regards to our strategy and the achievements we have so far reached in order to have a
sustainable outperformance. Our CFO will then go over the investment strategy in detail,
and he will also give us some thoughts on inflation. As always, we will then invite Sven and
Claude to share their thoughts on the Non-Life and the Life & Health reinsurance business.
So we have a rich agenda and a rich variety in our agenda for today.
Just a few organizational remarks before we start. Today's event will be recorded. After
each presentation, we have some time for Q&A. (Operator Instructions) So it's now my
pleasure to hand over to our CEO, Jean-Jacques Henchoz. Jean-Jacques, the floor is
yours.

Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. A warm welcome to our Investor Day.
We wanted to have a meeting with physical presence, but given the uncertainties
surrounding the restrictions on the Covid pandemic, we decided to play safe and go for a
virtual event. I very much hope that next year will be an opportunity to meet in person, this
will be certainly behind us and the possibility to meet an exchange also informally during
breaks as well will be provided.
So I'd like to give a bit of an overview on where we stand as a company and also highlight
the execution of our strategy. You see my title is Teaming Up to Create Opportunities.
This is taken from our purpose statement, very much driven to partnerships with our
clients, with our broker partners, but also opportunities because we have a positive
outlook and see future opportunities arising and that's very much the key message we
want to convey for today.
So the agenda are a few comments first on our current position in the reinsurance market.
I'll then update you on the strategy cycle, which is a 3-year cycle, which started in '21. Then
I'd like to comment also on our ESG strategy, which is progressing very well. You might
have first seen the announcement yesterday on our net zero targets. Then a few words
on the outlook before closing and opening up for Q&A.
So on our position in the market, I don't want to go back too much into the previous
strategy cycle, but one overview on the key metrics showing that in spite of a quite
turbulent time with heavy NatCat activities in '18/'19 and, of course the Covid pandemic in
2020, the main metrics are looking good. We delivered on most of them and showed, I
would say resilience in a very, very challenging environment. So looking back, we feel that
the main objectives we've set ourselves for the previous strategy cycle were met. We're
quite happy to see that there has been value creation for our shareholders. It's good, of
course to see the ROE performance in this challenging time and particularly also the

Page 2 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

growth trajectory in all our business segments, particularly P&C in the past few years. So
good successful execution of the previous strategy cycle.
Looking at the performance in terms of return of equity, of course it's always good to
have a bit of a longer-term view. You see that Hannover Re produced above 13% ROE
over the past decade. This is, of course the platform for us to continue the trajectory. The
ROE performance has been quite above the industry average, 5.6%, in this period. You
see that we had some different cycles. And across these cycles, we managed to have this
outperformance. This is something which is key to the management team. We believe
that the ingredients which are helping this outperformance include the underwriting focus,
the underwriting DNA of Hannover Re and the discipline related to it, but also the
combination with the nurturing of partnerships with our clients, with brokers. We're trying
to be a very consistent player looking at long-term partnerships and trying to produce
win-win opportunities across the different cycles.
The capital management side is, of course also very important, particularly the
retrocession program, which is key to our strategy in P&C. This is something we will
continue to build on. Obviously in the past few years, it has helped the performance, but
we also want across the cycle to be able to make money for our retrocession partners.
This is also about partnerships on this side.

Bloomberg Transcript

And last but not least, the lean operating model has helped producing an extra margin
over time and is a key part of our business model for how we want to operate going
forward. So just to look back, and that's really our reference point and something we want
to continue to build on going forward.
And a few words on our lean operating model. You see here on the left-hand side of the
slide, the development of net earned premiums. They quadrupled over the period since
2000, so quite a growth trajectory. At the same time, looking at our admin expenses,
they increased by a factor of 2.8 during the same period. So you're looking at a model
which is very cost conscious and we're trying to build the franchise by making sure that
cost efficiency is continuously looked after. It's evident from the expense ratio, admin
expense ratio development, we're, on average, looking the at past five years about 3%
above the industry average. So quite a performance. It shows, in my view, the scalability of
the business model. It shows also that we continue to focus on operational efficiency, and
this is something which is key to the discussions in our Executive Board.
So the lean operating model is difficult to replicate. In my view, this is a key competitive
advantage, which is cultural, but also organizational. We seek organizational simplicity. I
think it's very difficult to copy such a model and we will keep it as a key ingredients for
future performance.
So just a look at the Covid situation. You know most of the numbers, but I just wanted to
give an overview on where we stand. In P&C, you remember that as of the end of 2020,
we had an overall expected load of EUR 950 million net. This was a situation, which kept
stable over the past few months. I can confirm today that we believe this is quite a
realistic picture of our expected exposure. Of course there are still some uncertainties on

Page 3 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

potential long-tail exposures related to Covid. But at the same time, I think we have some
solid provision for it. So in my view, a stable situation. I would not expect movement on the
P&C side.
Life & Health is, of course a bit of a different story. The excess mortality has been felt in
our book of business from the beginning of the pandemic. The excess mortality is most
pronounced in the United States and continues to have a burden on our numbers for
2021. There is also some excess mortality, unfortunately, in South Africa, which is a country
which has been very much impacted by Covid, particularly because of the lack of progress
in vaccination programs. In Latin America, the same. So me Latin American countries
where quite impacted. I think that with the progress made with the vaccination levels
across the world, we'll see some improvement to the situation in 2022. But it's clear that
the Covid pandemic has had a clear impact not only on 2020, but also on our
performance in 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

What you know also in Life & Health is that we have a pandemic retrocession program,
which is a parametric cover focusing on the U.S., the U.K. and the Australian market. This
would potentially give us a protection for further degradation of the situation, particularly
in the United States. This is something which will be felt rather in 2022. If we have some
relief from an accounting point of view, you would see that reflected in our numbers for
'22.
And to end up on the global picture, I think as I mentioned earlier, I think we see a lot of
opportunities in the market. The global reinsurance market has been growing quite
steadily, 7.3% in the past five years. Hannover Re has been growing faster than that.
We've seen some good opportunities. We have been able to expand a lot of client
relationships. We're able to profitably grow during this period. I believe we're well
positioned to continue on this path. There are many clients who want to offer us more
space in their insurance program. I think we're also a partner for the broker community
and receive a lot of opportunities, traditional business but also nontraditional business
opportunities. So the outlook is, in our view, good.
And of course you have a huge protection gap. This is, of course for the industry a big
challenge, seeing that the delta between economic losses and effective insured losses
remains very high, but we can see this as an opportunity to reduce the protection gap
going forward. We need to make some progress on modeling. We need to look into
insurance penetration and increase it, particularly in emerging markets. But I think beyond
the natural growth of the reinsurance market. There are also opportunities to expand the
cake, if I may put it that way by tapping into the protection gap. I would say the protection
gaps, plural, because beyond NatCat, there are also many opportunities to grow further
in reinsurance. Therefore, this confirms our view that a pure-play reinsurance positioning is
an appropriate way to tap into these opportunities.
So let me now move to a quick update on our strategy cycle, which we started in 2021.
You see here the strategy map of the group on the left-hand side, the foundations as we
put it, first of all, culturally, our purpose statement, our values. We have a very strong
culture at Hannover Re, which we want to nurture and a very strong governance

Page 4 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

framework in place. This is very much the building block to ensure sound growth and
cohesive strategy and organization, which is a high-performance organization.
We have performance drivers, and I will comment on them in a minute. These are the
drivers for growth, and we have performance enablers. I spoke about some of them
earlier on, and I see them as the drivers for potential outperformance. That's very much
our framework and where we want to operate in the future with the priorities set and a
few strategic initiatives, which I want to comment on, first, around the performance drivers
and performance enablers. Then I'll briefly comment on our ESG strategy, which is part of
the foundations.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me start with Asia Pacific. We have set ourselves very ambitious goals in the region.
We've been very successful. We've gained market share profitably in the past. But so a
couple of years ago that there was more to be done and identified a number of
initiatives, which we pursue with allocated resources and expect to have additional EBIT
contributions from these initiatives. So you see the key numbers, the expected numbers
with over EUR 0.5 billion of EBIT to be expected within the strategy cycle.
We follow, of course demographic development. The exposures are gaining importance,
economic development. And clearly, the share of wallet you have, even if you don't grow
in terms of percentage, you see the trajectory of our main clients. They are growing very
fast and need our help. We are on track with our financial targets at this stage. So the goal
we're setting ourselves for Asia Pacific is in my view still a realistic stretch, but realistic
target. And as you see, we focus on EBIT generation. We don't look at premium. This is
not where we're heading. The underwriters in the region know that this is about bottom
line. Meaning, if the cycle is not conducive to further growth in any one year, we accept it
and make sure that our long-term trajectory is front of mind and not a situation one year
or the other.
So we accept that growth might not be always within expectations if margins are under
threat, which is not the case today. We're growing steadily. We are very successful in the
area of financial solutions in Life & Health. We see the growing middle class with emerging
needs and the insurance penetration increasing. We see regulatory developments which
are triggering interest for nontraditional solutions. The growth outlook is for us, at this
stage, in terms of premium in Life & Health at about 11% in P&C. So these are the numbers
built in. I believe that with the strengthening of our regional hubs in the region and the
recruitment phase we're in, will have what it takes to be successful and outperform in Asia
Pacific. So good path and promising development in the region. We'll see a bit more in the
Q&A probably and when we discuss the business unit strategies later on today.
The second initiative, which is important to us and is also a long-term endeavor is our
efforts to leverage innovation and also digital solutions. We have put in place a number of
accelerators within the business units and want to make sure that emerging ideas are
consistently leveraged, that we develop new solutions with our partners. We feel whereas
this is not, from an EBIT production standpoint, very, very prominent today we are
convinced that in a few years, this will be a material part of what we do.

Page 5 of 62



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Two main themes we want to focus on. The first is digital health data. We feel in the
health sector, there is a real revolution taking place. There's a potential for strengthening
of partnerships with our clients looking into health data and making sure that we
contribute to an improved connection with our clients, increase profitability, but also
positive contribution to healthcare by creating more awareness among policyholders. An
example of what we're doing is VeoSense collaboration in the area of wearables, which is
a very interesting opportunity for us to make steady progress in the digital health space.
So more to come, still in the making, but we're quite confident that this will be an
important part of what we do and data analytics being one of the key skills we need to
combine with our underwriting abilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second theme is related to direct digital distribution. Of course many of our
traditional clients are looking for an entry into the direct space, digital solutions, products
and new entrants are coming into the insurance space, fintech companies with original
and distinctive strategies. What we're trying to do in that space, again in a pure play of
reinsurance positioning, we want to partner with these different clients and potential
clients and provide a new value proposition through the digital channel. We see a lot of
promising opportunities. One example mentioned here is Parametrix, a cloud insurance
scheme, which we developed with Element in Germany, the insurance provider. This is a
good example of something which we can develop in partnerships, providing a lot of
knowledge in pricing, structuring, product development and modeling, of course as a key
asset to the contribution to this partnership.
So here is an area which is of long-term strategic importance. It's not going to move the
needle in terms of pure EBIT contribution in the short term, but I think there is a lot of
potential opportunities coming up. Scalability is the goal, and I hope in a few years, I'll be
able to provide examples with scale in the sense of creating new partnerships for
innovation. Client excellence is the other initiatives we're pursuing. If you look at the
feedback from clients, from brokers, you might conclude that we don't need to push too
much on this because we received extremely positive feedback because exactly of this
partnership approach we're showing. But at the same time, we're growing steadily. Our
clients are growing. Some of them are consolidating and more demanding, sometimes
more complex to handle.
And we are of the view that we need to prepare for future growth. One aspect is to
ensure a very strong key account management when it comes to the international clients,
the larger clients and be one voice to our customers, orchestrate the relationship. And
another priority is to improve on our customer relationship management. We have a new
platform for collaboration across the teams, and we want to enrich the client discussion.
So short term, of course we see a lot of inbuilt growth in the traditional business. It's not a
growth challenge, but it's about preparing for future growth. So I think that strengthening
of our client interactions and approach to client relationships will bear some fruit in the
midterm. It's an investment which is necessary to continue growth beyond this strategy
cycle.
As an example, and I won't comment in depth on this, you see the latest feedback. We
gathered the NMG global studies, a survey which is done worldwide in Life & Health and in
P&C. Of course we look into the feedback in detail. You see the brand associations like
Page 6 of 62



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

partnership, innovation, flexibility, supportive, the consistency, the reliability, which are
attributes we like to hear. This is what we hear from our clients. We are very much number
one in a number of indicators in the capability index. These are, to a great extent, the
attributes we want to see to secure further growth. The broker community puts us in a
number one position in P&C. So this is very good to see. So a strong platform for
customer loyalty and something we want to continue to nurture going forward. So clientcentricity, client excellence as a long-term endeavor, building on what is essentially a
strength of the Hannover Re model.
Last but not least, talent management. I commented already last year on it. The number
of activities are not totally surprising, but it is important in the context of our growth story.
We've been growing steadily. We need to hire new people. The APAC initiative, in
particular, shows the need to grow regionally. It's important that we foster a strong culture
as we grow that we integrate our new hires, make sure that our culture is alive and that
our new talent create added value, but also longevity in the company. You know that a
number of our underwriters are very experienced, have a long tenure, a lot of loyalty with
the company. Succession planning is certainly one of the topics we want to strengthen
over time. There will be a number of key roles to replace in the next few years. So we're
putting a lot of emphasis on personal development, on leadership development. creating
opportunities to be a bit more mobile and allowing also our younger talents to broaden
their profiles. So a lot of activities around talent management, talent development in a
growing organization and certainly the goal to continue to foster a very strong culture and
make sure the Hannover Re way is -- continues to be alive.
So let me end up with the last topic on our strategy map, which is ESG. We are of the view
that there is a lot on our plate, but we also did a lot in the past few years, and I want to
comment on this. Of course it has gained unprecedented global awareness in the last few
years. I think the Covid pandemic, to some extent, has indirectly highlighted the need to
do more with respect to climate change in particular. There are a lot of initiatives. There's
a lot of activity going on.
The COP26 conference is going to take place in Glasgow. We decided to really make an
effort to not only continue on our path and be diligent in that space, but also be a bit
more vocal and say more about our priorities. We want to increase the dialogue. We want
to increase transparency. We want ESG to be well anchored into our corporate strategy.
So climate change is a key topic, first, of course in the contribution to mitigation
strategies. But also in the area of climate change adaptation, I think there's a lot of things
we need to do to adapt to climate change, to prevent natural disasters to be too
destructive and so on and so forth. So a priority for us. You might have seen our
sustainability report giving you an overview on where we stand with this alliance, which is
very beneficial to our strategy as well. And hopefully, we'll set some standards for the
industry going forward.
So these are our commitments. I won't go into the details, but I think this is for your
background and our sustainability report is also giving you a lot of information on our
target, on the priorities. I think in asset management, we have an opportunity to improve
quite steadily in the next few years. It's about asset selection, but we also feel we can do
more in new technologies, in renewable energy, in infrastructure. In underwriting, a lot of
Page 7 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

progress made. In our facultative operation, as I mentioned, we decided to progressively
exit the thermal coal segment in facultative. We're also shying away from the most
extractive projects, particularly oil sands, and are very diligent in improving our track
record in underwriting.
The next stage will be treaty. It is, of course a bit of more of a challenge for us because
the level of granularity of data is not as significant, and this is why we want to work with
our peers in order to make progress there. In our own business operations, we're carbonneutral in Hanover. It has been the case for a number of years. This is, of course a
combination of carbon offset. But we also hope to focus on being more efficient, travel
whenever we can use options which are more sustainable. We want to globalize this in the
next few years. And by 2030, we want to be a net zero organization across the globe. So
a lot to do there, but I think worthwhile targets to set ourselves and clearly with climate
change, the topic of our generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

You see that we have strengthened our approach and visibility. This is reflected in some
of the specialized ratings. We've been progressing very steadily with ESG ratings. You see
a few mentioned here and want to continue to progress. We're also very pleased to see
that our company is listed in some of the specialized ESG listings. The DAX 50 ESG index,
in particular, is an important one. So we want to continue on our path. I hope in the coming
years that we'll have more examples of such specialized listings or ratings improvement
on ESG. But it's a good indicator, which reflects the progress made by our company.
So I conclude on ESG. I want to look into the outlook for 2022. The target matrix, which
you see here, is unchanged. We feel that in spite of the continuing challenges, Covid, of
course continuing to be a highly relevant point for 2021. NatCat activities, we feel that our
3-year target matrix is robust and feel there's no need to revise it. So this is our platform,
our indicator for future success, and we'll be guided by these metrics going forward.
That's the strategy cycle '21, '23.
And apart from that, what we want to do is continue to emphasize the importance of our
dividend story. We changed the emphasis. We want to discontinue the payout ratio, which
we've used in the past and move to a new definition of our target for the ordinary
dividend. And from now on, our goal is to at least secure the same level of ordinary
dividend as compared to the previous year. So you know that our last dividend has been
at 4 50 and this is our base for future payment.
The special dividend, however stays as an option, which is related to our performance in
the year, our capital requirements and our capital needs for further growth. So we didn't
change the messaging here. But of course -- and as soon as we can, depending on the
performance, we are of the view that we should offer a special dividend. But the
emphasis, the message is on dividend continuity and a strong signal that we want to at
least match the ordinary dividend performance we've shown in the previous year going
forward.
So key takeaways for this initial part. I think first of all, we have very good growth outlook.
We see many opportunities, but we want to support this growth through initiatives, which

Page 8 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

give us some structure and longevity around growth, so Asia Pacific innovation, (inaudible)
client excellence, talent management, really building on our success story, but also giving
us the toolkit, the structure, the basis for sustainable growth. We're well on track in this
initial year. This is good news. ESG is an area where we're working very hard. We're
making progress across our operations and see the steady improvements in our ratings
as an indicator of success. But we'll continue to work on this based on our guidance for
net zero, our targets for net zero going forward.
And lastly, the capital management side remains key to success. We want to convey the
message of dividend continuity, and therefore, emphasize the stability and improvement
of our ordinary dividend going forward. So I close with these key takeaways, and we have
25 minutes approximately for Q&A. My colleagues will join me now, Clemens, Sven and
Claude, for any questions you might have on this first section. Thank you very much.

Questions And Answers
A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well thank you, Jean-Jacques, for your lively presentation. I'm sure that has already
stimulated a lot of interest. Therefore, we are going straight into the Q&A session.
(Operator Instructions) For the Q&A session, I'd like to invite all Board members giving
presentations today to take the stage.
First, I'm pleased to welcome Sven Althoff, our coordinator for the P&C business and with
responsibility for the U.S., U.K., Ireland, London market and some specialty markets like
marine, aviation, credit surety and, of course facultative business. I'm also happy to
welcome Claude Chevre. Claude's responsibility on the Life & Health side covers
longevity business and most regional markets except for the Anglo-Saxon markets. I'm
also pleased to welcome Clemens Jungsthofel, our CFO, whose scope of responsibility
includes, among other things, IT investments and finance and accounting.
So I think we are set to take your questions. I already see a number of raised hands, and
we start with Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. So Andrew, can you hear us? We cannot
hear your question.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Sorry, I think your operator is being quite unhelpful just in terms of interfering with muting
and unmuting. A couple of questions. I'm not sure, when I add together the various
initiatives that have been outlined, I'm not -- you talked about incremental EBIT adding up
to about EUR 300 million by 2023. I'm not sure how I view it as incremental because -- or
to what degree is business as usual, and you're just unpacking what would otherwise be
business as usual. I mean if I add it together, it implies about a 6% growth in EBIT from
those initiatives on average over three years. Is that on top of normal organic growth? Or
just help us understand what's going truly incremental, I guess is the question.
On the capital management, I'm still a bit confused why change the messaging now? Or
are you not really changing the messaging? This is simply a formality of what we've always
Page 9 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

seen, which is a fair degree of continuity in the ordinary dividend and specials from time
to time. I can't judge to what degree is really a change of message or not.

FINAL

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Well thank you, Andrew. On your first question, I think when we discussed the different
areas of focus for the next few years, we felt they would need to be associated with
additional resources, and we wanted to have a clear price tag on these resources and the
return expectations. Some of it -- and it will be very difficult to really measure in practice
what comes out of our core business, what is the result of initiatives. But based on the
initial planning we had at the time, we felt we should put an additional EBIT contribution.
Some of it will translate into incremental growth. Some of it will be an expansion of our
business with clients. Some of it will be in nontraditional business. But it's not on top of
what we've presented today and will be a bit of a blend going forward. This was more of
an ambition we wanted to set to the teams and this added to our planning for the next
three years. So it's not on top of what you've seen so far.
On the capital message, my colleague might complement. But we wanted, indeed, as you
said, to make more explicit what has been implicit in the past few years. That message is
not a change of direction. This is more of an explicit emphasis, which we want to convey
to the market. So no big revolution I'm aware, but I think making sure that the emphasis is
explicitly communicated to the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

I think or I hope, Andrew, that answers your question. So we continue with Will Hardcastle
with the next question.

Q - William Fraser Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

It's a quick one on retro really. I think it does fit in here just thinking about the capital
management structure. It's been a key differential versus peers in respect of volatility. It's
clear in P&C. It could be coming apparent in Life & Health as well those kinds of things. So
it makes the question as to what prevents peers from replicating this approach? Do you
think it's cultural or is it a structural decision? And given you've drawn down a bit on retro
in recent years, is it possible, do you think to expect price change at upcoming renewals
on your retro to be better than the market price change like it's been recently given your
long-standing relationships?

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you, Will. So I'll give the question to Sven, who is very much into our retro approach.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Thanks for the question. As you know, we have a long-term approach to buying retro. To
your question, why is that not easily replicated? I think it can be replicated, but it's a
question of how much appetite for volatility do you have from, particularly, your NatCat
writings. And here, our appetite seems to be lower compared to the average peer. And
hence, we have continued building on the capacity we are buying on the retrocessional
Page 10 of 62



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

side. You know that we are very diversified by having various instruments of retro. So we
are, therefore, also flexible to structure our protection according to our needs for future
years. Whether we have to expect price increases at the renewal over and above what
we can achieve in the reinsurance market ourselves, it's a little too early to say. I mean you
will not be surprised that on, at least some of the losses, our retro program is working
again this year. So we certainly have to expect increases in prices and/or adjustments and
structure. But whether this will be over and above or in line or below what we can achieve
in the market ourselves, it's too early to tell. I would expect it to be in line again.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Well thank you Will for your question. So the next question is from Vinit Mahotra from
Mediobanca.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Can you hear me?

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Yes. We can hear you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

So my question links more to -- I mean yesterday there was this -- two days ago, there
was this ESG press release where you commented that on the investment management
side, there'll be a 30% reduction in carbon exposure by 2025. Now usually, the ESG
targets tend to have a profile further out that we don't know I mean you don't have to
care lightweight. But this one would be something that brings more action from your side.
So I'm just wondering whether there is whether some kind of market you're flagging
because you'll be selling the lot? Or how do you think the actual practical application of
this could mean? Then I have one question from the CFO. There will be Q&A session
afterwards, so I can (inaudible)

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you, Vinit. I give the floor to Clemens on investment management.

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for the question, Vinit. I will be covering some of that later in my session as
well. But just briefly, on ESG and Investment Management. As you mentioned, we've sort
of raised the bar, on the one hand, formulating a target for reduction of carbon-intense
investments. We've raised about to 30% by 2025. So we've increased our ambition early
in the year there. That was part of our sustainability strategy. That will cover roughly 39%
of our portfolio. It's mainly addressed to corporate bonds and equity positions. So we will
be actively screening those and we'll be reallocating some parts of that. On top of that,
that was what we communicated yesterday we have set a net zero target by 2050 in that
area.

Page 11 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Well thank you, Vinit. Of course you can ask further questions in later sessions as well. The
next question is from Iain Pearce.

FINAL

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

I had three questions, if that's okay. The first one was just on Covid-related losses. You
mentioned that you have a decent proportion of losses related to sort of liability claims,
longer-term claims. Have you've seen anything there developing yet? Is there anything
worth dragging? And also, with the high level of IBNR you still have on the business
interruption claims and as these get notified and you start coming against the retro, is
there a chance that we actually see cover losses going down going forward and reserve
releases in relation to those?
My second question was on ESG. We've had some peers talking about growth
opportunities related to ESG, particularly on the underwriting side. I think if you could
provide some thoughts there, sort of where you might see growth opportunities related
to ESG, that would be quite interesting.
Then on the dividend, just thinking related to this change in dividend policy. Obviously you
had quite a big jump in the ordinary last year. How we should think about the ordinary
dividend trajectory going forward and what that should be linked to in terms of growth of
the ordinary?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you. So Sven, maybe I'll invite you to comment on the first two questions and
Clemens on the dividend.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes. Very happy to do so. So on the Covid side, you're right that a fair number of our
IBNRs are on liabilities and other long-tail exposures like credit and surety. We are
comfortable with our reserve position right now. We have not seen a lot of movement in
Q2, nor will we see a lot of movement in Q3. So we start in certain parts of the reserve.
We start recognizing some first prudency in our numbers. But it's still very early days when
it comes to exposures like credit and surety. You know that we have more than EUR 200
million of our reserve coming from those lines of business. Yes. We have not seen the
level of insolvencies rising in the last 18 months. But that, of course was heavily supported
by government support for either the economies or for the credit insurance industry. As
those are phasing out, we have to expect insolvency levels getting back to normal or
above normal. So what we are comfortable with the reserve position, we would feel it's
too early to start releasing some of that. So from that point of view, you can expect that,
that number should stay stable throughout 2021.
Your second question was on growth opportunities on the ESG side, and there are plenty,
but maybe I'll give you two examples of where we see growth opportunities. First is in the
sector of renewable energy. So wind, solar and other means of alternative energy

Page 12 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

generation, where, of course you need insurance for operating those wind farms or solar
parks. So that's an area of new business opportunities.
And the second example I can give is the phenomenal amount of investment that is
necessary to get into the -- in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement or the EU Green
deal. We are talking very, very large numbers of investments that are required in order to
transform the entire industry to be carbon neutral. And all of that activity, of course needs
insurance during the construction phase and then in the operating phase. So this should
definitely be a significant source of government and commercial investment and hence,
insurance opportunities.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you, Clemens?

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the dividend, I think it's been said earlier, I think when you look at how a dividend
policy was sort of phrased was very much linked to a payout ratio when we look at the
ordinary. Then we, of course had a special dividend sort of as an option in terms of capital
management. The reason why we really wanted to strengthen the message here is that
when you look into the past, how we've been doing about dividends is really -- was rather
that commitment to steady and growing dividends. This is what we really wanted to
reassure the market. We have raised the bar a bit here. So the five 50 that Jean-Jacques
mentioned earlier is sort of the starting point for us. Of course we are committed and
wanted to state that, of course to grow that base with our EBIT.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much, Iain, for your questions. The next one is coming from Thomas
Fossard from HSBC.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Hope you can hear me well. I had a question related to your NatCat writing. Can you
remind us what's your appetite? How much allocated capital is currently to write NatCats,
how you intend to grow this into 2022 and maybe be a bit more specific by regions? I
think that in the past, you say that actually for U.S. CAT probably wind, you were already
maxed out. But just wanted to understand if potential price increase, with potential price
increase on the horizon, this may change your risk appetite and how you will allocate
potentially more capital to this line of business? And maybe I fully understand that you're
presenting and leaving unchanged your 2021, 2023 targets in terms of growth
expectations, plus 5%. But it seems to be that the sector is heading into a kind of a quite
nice cyclical upturn. So I wanted to better understand how you wanted to take benefit of
the (inaudible) turn? And potentially, if you could be a bit more specific and precise on
what you're expecting in terms of growth rate on the P&C market for next year?

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you, Thomas. Sven, maybe I'll invite you NatCat.
Page 13 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Thomas. On your letter question, I would ask for your patience. I will cover our
midterm outlook on the P&C side when it comes to premium growth in my presentation.
So hopefully, that will give you a good idea where we are. -- But of course also happy to
take a further Q&A after my presentation if you should have any questions.
When it comes to the NatCat risk appetite, our risk appetite has been very stable the last
five years, I would say. We have grown our NatCat writings proportionate to the growth of
our economic capital. But the percentage of economic capital we are using for NatCat
writing itself has been stable. We, you're right, have certain areas, and particularly U.S.
wind exposed business, where we have deemphasized our growth. So 2021 is the third
year in a row where we are growing our U.S. wind aggregates much less than
proportionate to the overall growth of our NatCat risk appetite. The reason is
diversification. U.S. wind for us and for the entire industry, of course is the peak peril, and
that is also showing through in our portfolio. But we decided three years ago that we want
to close the gap between U.S. wind and the other peak perils we are looking yet. In order
to do -- come to that result, we decided to lessen proportionately grow in U.S. wind. That
will remain unchanged going into next year.
Yes. You're right. We feel that we are in a good pricing environment and that good pricing
environment should continue into 2022. But we are not expecting a pricing environment
that would make us fundamentally change our risk appetite on the NatCat side.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you, Sven. Clemens, maybe I invite you to briefly comment on the target matrix.

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Yes. On the growth, Thomas, I think it's -- you have to read it as an ambition over the
cycle. That's how we looked at the target metrics in terms of P&C growth. I think the
overall growth with the 5% is probably a bit more allocated to P&C. I guess it's a balanced
message there. The first one being we do see opportunities in the market over the cycle,
and we want to take advantage of those. But at the same time, we wanted to convey the
measures that we are not really chasing top line. So we are -- we don't want to sacrifice
bottom line in terms of really chasing top line in the upcoming renewals. However you've
seen that our growth has been in excess of what we've put in the target matrix. So we will
revisit that number for 2022, of course again and will include that in our guidance for 2022
as well.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Well thank you, Thomas, for your question. It looks like we have no further requests for
questions. Therefore, move on with our agenda. So thank you for your excellent
questions, and thank you for taking the stage for answering the questions.
We are not at the next coffee break, but I'm sure you're desperate for a coffee break. But
as some of you have doubtlessly learned in economics, foregoing consumption, as long
as you have saved it instead is, or should I say used to be rewarded with interest. This
Page 14 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

brings us straight to the next topic. Our CFO, Clemens Jungsthofel will give an update on
the investment portfolio and the future income it can be expected to generate. He will
also talk about inflation and in particular, how we protect ourselves in multiple ways and
not only on the investment side. I'm sure you will find this thrillingly interesting. But just as a
housekeeping remark, information about our reserving position has already been
published with our Q2 numbers. Therefore, it is not part of this part of this section. On
that note, I'd like to welcome Clemens on stage. Clemens, it's your turn.
(presentation)

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Karl. So -- thrilling, you said, Karl. I'm still wondering really what got into me
to put inflation on the agenda today. I think it must have been your team. You probably
talked me into this for good reasons though, I have to say because inflation is really
something that is in literally in every second headline at the moment in the newspapers.
So it's all over the place. And at the same time, interestingly, it's a bit of an elephant in the
room topic inflation when we talk about our and industry how the reinsurance industry is
affected. So I think it's really worthwhile to spend some time on that topic.

Bloomberg Transcript

But let's start with investments and how we are doing there. So I think it's fair to say on
the investment side that our portfolio has fared quite well over the pandemic. It has
produced very stable returns. I think it has shown strong resilience over the last year, and
it has also produced very strong and attractive returns in 2021 so far. So overall, I think
we're doing quite well there. That is the despite fact that we are in a market that I would
still call quite challenging.
So you know this slide already. It's familiar to you. It shows sort of the locked-in yields in
our fixed income portfolio. That's the light blue bars and the dotted line that you see
here. You know that from previous presentations. Our reinvestment yield, that represents
the green bar and the dotted line as per currency.
So you can see that our locked-in yield at the moment stands at 2.21%. So if you
remember the slide from last year, that came further down from 2.35%. I think we've
managed to smooth that a bit that drop. I would have expected a bit sharper drop given
the situation last year and early this year. But I think we've managed to smooth that a bit.
Then the reinvestment yield, you can see, has decreased further from 1.45%. In 2019, we
were standing at 1.57% to what is now 1.38%.
So reinvestment remains challenging for some time. The question is how do we position
ourselves in the market? And Karl mentioned it, so we have slightly adjusted our strategy,
our investment strategy early in the year. So those are the three pillars of our investment
strategy that you see here. So it's the credit portfolio, on the one hand side, the real
assets and ESG as a third becoming more pronounced pillar.
What changed from last year basically in our strategy? I think the first one is -- and you
remember that in 2020, we had rather take a passive derisking approach, particularly on
the side credit. So a bit more risk detached there on the credit side. We see that credits
Page 15 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

have come to more expensive levels now with monetary politics, et cetera, pushing down
threats, so it's not an easy exercise. But what you see here, we have reallocated some
govies into BBB and high-yield corporate bonds. The focus there is on large and small
corporates in developed markets. So it's really about finding the buckets that still provide
attractive risk returns there.
On the CLO spectrum, I think that still provides some room for opportunities. It still offers
good spread returns there, but we really have to look into it, particularly to look at capital
costs there as well as very important when it comes to risk reward. So we reloaded some
2A into our BBB bucket investments on the CLO side.
Emerging markets, as you can see here, we do have a substantial portfolio in emerging
markets. There are still market opportunities in the emerging market space. Still, rather
developed markets are very expensive. So same here, it's a rather opportunistic
approach there.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I think that counts for the overall credits at the moment. So it's not easy to find a sweet
spot there. It's not easy to find opportunities here. I think you really have to go the extra
mile on the credit side here to find the sweet spots, to find opportunities there, or as one
of our investment managers recently said, it really feels like squeezing the last drop out of
a lemon. I think that describes it very well. But I think we've done -- during 2021, we've
done a quite good job here on the credit side and have positioned ourselves.
Then of course our real assets. The private equity portfolio there, as you know, it's a very
established asset class within our portfolio. It's roughly EUR 1.3 billion at the moment with
commitments, outstanding commitment on top of that. It's highly diversified. It has been a
very stable contributor even in 2020, a very stable contributor to our earnings and has
proven to be resilient in difficult times. We've reported that in the first and in the Second
Quarter, that it has been an uptick in terms of distributions from our private equity
portfolio. So that is very pleasing to see.
On the real estate side, it's roughly EUR 2.3 billion that we have there on the real estate
side, both direct and indirect funds, strong focus on the U.S., on Europe and then we've
got a substantial portfolio both in Asia and in Germany as well, roughly 45% to 50% office
space there, 15% to 20% logistics and retail, et cetera.
So I think on the fund side, we have a steady contribution to our real estate funds. On the
direct side, same here, you have to be really looking into opportunities in the market. You
have to be very disciplined. It's partly, in some regions, a very competitive market. So we
are very mindful of pricing there. So we are rather taking an opportunistic approach both
when it comes to a new investment, but also to disposals. But I'll come to that in a minute.
I think we've managed to keep that very stable as well.
On the infrastructure side, at the moment, roughly EUR 400 million to EUR 500 million
there, includes equity and also debt positions there. It's a focus at the moment, mainly on
the U.S., but we want to enhance that and distribute that to other areas as well. We are
looking steadily for opportunities there, part of our ESG strategy as well.
Page 16 of 62



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

So how are we doing on all this? You can see the familiar table here with our asset
allocation. So you can see when you look at the at the bottom line that our asset base,
when you recall the number from last year has increased over the last 12 months by
roughly EUR 4 billion. So I think it's fair to say that the speed and the strong operating cash
flows that our underwriting colleagues were producing over the last 12 months has been
challenging for us on the investment side really to find spots there to invest that. But I
think again on the credit side, we've done quite well. The most notable change here you
can see in the reallocation of the government bonds to more corporate bonds here. But
we've also managed to grow our real assets, as you can see here, with the portfolio and
the equities as well. So I think that's -- the team has done a good job here.
On the right-hand side, the contributions. You know this table as well. You can see that
particularly on the private equity side, as mentioned earlier, which represents roughly 3%
of our overall portfolio, but contributes 16% to our ordinary as per June 2021. So again
very pleasing and very steady contributions there, and I see that for the rest of the year
as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

So how does our corporate bond portfolio look like? We've grown it quite steadily, as you
can see here. Substantially, as part of our strategy, we've increased the BBB rating
investments here, as you can see, the positions. Overall, the quality of the portfolio is still
very, very strong. Our fixed income portfolio was 94% of our fixed income investments
carrying an investment grade.
Quick glance on the alternative investments. As mentioned earlier, it's a constantly
growing asset class. We slightly increased our targets here on the real assets that you can
see here on the left-hand side. Again private equity, as you can see here, on the IRRs has
been a strong earnings contributor. And even when you look back over the last 15, 20
years in our portfolio, has always been a very stable contributor. So we will be keeping
and actually building on that class going forward as well.
Real estate, again stable contributor as well. It wasn't easy, as mentioned earlier, to keep
that level of investment here because we've done some opportunistic sales. We had
some very good market opportunities. So we took chance and disposed some of our real
estates. We're able to replace that in terms of -- return is very stable as well, very much in
line with expectations. We do watch the areas where we had potential Covid impact. I
mentioned earlier, that roughly 45% to 50% is office space. But there, I think it's all around
how flexible you are in terms of office space. We have seen very rarely issues with that. I
think overall, the office space is very flexible. We do see customers, renters there to ask
for rebuilding in terms of new work, et cetera. So it's not about really decreasing space at
the moment, it's rather using it in a different way. That's what we see in our portfolio. But
we watch that very closely.
Again on infrastructure, constantly growing portfolio with debt and equity positions there.
On ESG, as announced yesterday and briefly touched base on it in the Q&A, it's actually -and you might think that as we have become probably a bit more vocal on ESG in asset
management. I did look it up when I was preparing for the session. We actually started the
ESG journey quite early actually, 10 years ago on the investment side with some exclusions
already in 2011. We've actually formulated an ESG strategy on the investment side already
Page 17 of 62



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

in 2012. So the journey started early. At the heart of our client strategy on the investment
side is the decarbonization of our investment. Again the first target, 30% reduction in
carbon intensity of the asset classes, so corporate bonds, covered bonds and equities. So
starting point from that is 2019. We will be reducing by 30% -- to 30% by 2025. Then, of
course the attainment of climate neutrality in this area, as mentioned, by 2050. The goal
will accomplish by active portfolio management. Again that asset class is roughly 39%,
40% at the moment. Another step forward is the increased emphasis on sustainable
investments that sort of counteract climate change, such as infrastructure investments
and impact invest funds.
So let's spend some time on inflation. As mentioned earlier, it's a topic that is literally in
every second headline. I do promise that I will not even make an attempt to try to predict
the unpredictable. So I will not talk about inflation itself. I would only share my thoughts on
how this might or might not impact Hannover Re. What are the implications on inflation?
Just briefly here, you can see the areas that can potentially be impacted by inflation -- It's
the obvious one, of course on the pricing side and on the reserving side. But also when
we define our large loss budget for the year, we incorporate or we take account of
inflation there as well, of course. Then on the investment side, both in terms of hedging,
but also in terms of how we invest real assets is certainly one topic. Then, of course admin
costs, et cetera, and the obvious ones as well, we can be affected by inflation there as
well.
On the pricing side, I think first of all, it's really important to state that when we talk about
general inflation that the drivers for claims inflation, so how that can affect our business,
how it can affect that our underwriting, that the drivers are very different from what we
see in the headlines. For example, U.S. CPI as an inflation index for the U.S., so those
drivers behind that are very different. If we were to sort of form in Hannover Re-specific
inflation index, that would be a blend across regions, across currencies. Then, of course
we would have to distinguish between certain lines of business and the drivers, what
drives inflation in our LOBs. That is, for example, drivers would be wages and salaries in
our casualty lines of business, in our long-tail casualty LOBs, then rebuilding costs of
course in property, including NatCat and then medical expenses, for example, in the Life
& Health space.
So what are we doing about it? On the underwriting side, the obvious one, of course is
repricing as part of our regular annual renewal in the short-term business. So the best
estimate inflation assumptions are annually adjusted here on the underwriting side. We
incorporate historical experience, of course inflation in those assumptions, but also would
add some loadings and will add future outlooks into our pricing considerations there as
well. For 2021, we already raised slightly our assumptions here on inflation on top of what
we've seen in the past because you could see some dynamics, of course early in the year
already in terms of inflation. But we will be revisiting and see if there are any future trends,
of course when we do adjustments for 2022. So those are under review at the moment
as part of our regular renewal cycle here. Of course given the shortage of material, et
cetera, all what we see in the headlines, what we see in the indices, et cetera, will be
taken into account.

Page 18 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

What are other mitigating facts here other than repricing? I think it's important to note that
on top of that, we have index clauses in large parts of our portfolio, particularly in our
portfolio outside the U.S., where it's not very common. But particularly in Europe, it's very
common that you have index clauses. Then we have sliding scales and profit commissions
in many of our P&C reinsurance contracts as well.
So on the pricing side, as you can see, I think it's sort of a basket of mitigating factors
here that mitigate that exposure. How does that look on the reserving side? First of all,
reserving is, of course very much based on with the actual methods that we use, very
much based on historical data. So anything that we would have seen in the past in terms
of inflation is explicitly or implicitly actually in the triangles that we use for actual
calculations going forward. So as long as inflation doesn't really change significantly,
average inflation would be -- would already be included in our reserves. I guess
historically, should be around 2% to 3% that we see as implicit inflation anyways. Then, of
course we consider when we do our actuary work at year-end, we always look at loadings
for deviations of what we've seen in the past in our triangles.
Another element is, of course the prudency in our reserving. You know that -- and we've
published our studies there. You know that we are carrying a substantial amount of buffers
in our reserves. Some of that the result, of course that particularly in the first underwriting
years, we set our ULRs above our pricing expectations. So that adds some prudency
there. Then, of course when you look at historic events, et cetera, I think it's fair to say
that within the last 20, 30 years, we haven't really observed significant impact of changes
in inflation on our technical provisions. So I think overall, I think the conservative reserve
buffers do add some comfort here. And also, I think when you look at our large loss
budgeting, we have been rather on the conservative side over the last 10 years. Of
course we have exceeded the large loss budget in the last five years. But when you really
look at long term, I think we've been rather on the conservative side here. So that adds
some buffer here as well.
On the hedging. So you do know our inflation-linked bonds. We've been reporting those.
So this is -- it's part of our, let's say inflation hedging program. We do have other
programs in place where we have hedging strategies in some jurisdictions, in some
currencies. But this is really sort of a substantial amount of inflation-linked bonds. What is
inflationary bond? Just briefly. It's basically a nominal bond where you have embedded an
inflation swap, which is linked to a consumer basket like CPI, et cetera, that we heard
earlier for each country. The portfolio is, at the moment, we slightly increased it in the First
Quarter. It stands at roughly EUR 5 billion. The duration is mainly sitting at six years and
nine years. You can see the exposure on the left-hand side. It's mainly euro and U.S. dollar.
So the -- when you look at the swap, how is the mechanic of the swaps? You have the
fixed (inaudible) that represents the expected inflation at purchase date and that is what
you can see on the left-hand side, so the average hedge inflation levels. Then you've got
the floating lag, that's the realized inflation until maturity of the inflation-linked bond, and
that's an exercise to do on a yearly basis. You see -- you compare sort of the fixed and
the floating lag. The accounting mechanics is that difference. So the actual inflation is part
of the amortization of the yearly amortization that comes with a time lag of two months

Page 19 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

roughly. You will have seen that in our first and Second Quarter reporting that, that has
contributed already to our investment income. So that is how the mechanics are.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

The swap doesn't happen. That's the reason why we structured it this way. The swap
doesn't have to be bifurcated under IFRS. So it's really a part of the market value change
that you do not see in the P&L, but in OCI in terms of volatility. It's -- again it's a bit easier
to handle.
So is it ideal? We've put down some sensitivities here. You can see that a change in
inflation of roughly 100 basis points would increase the market value of our inflation-linked
bonds to roughly EUR 470 million. When you look at our liability at our technical provisions,
of course that's not 100% coverage. That is clear. It would probably roughly at the
moment, stand at around 20% coverage of our liabilities. So if you do the same exercise
on our technical provisions, that would be probably bring in a sensitivity of around 4% in
our technical provisions roughly at the moment. So I think it's a proxy. It's not perfect, of
course because we do not hedge non-CPI, as mentioned earlier. There are different
drivers in our portfolio, of course. We have other mitigating factors here. So it's really part
of the overall inflation hedge strategy and adds another mitigating factor to it and works
quite well, of course at the moment.
So key takeaways. I think on the investments it's fair to say it's a highly diversified portfolio.
It's very, very resilient. We've adjusted our strategy slightly to, again to squeeze out that a
little bit out of the lemon to go the extra mile. It's really hard work there. I think this is really
where you have the advantage, you have to go the extra mile to find some opportunities
in the market and to smoothen out that drop in our book yield. I think we are doing quite a
good job there. I'm quite optimistic that we managed to smooth that out quite well.
Our ordinary income, that's very pleasing. And also when you look historically, I think if the
portfolio has been very reliable in terms of producing ordinary income. Overall, I think the
low interest rate environment, of course is challenging, but we will manage it. On the
inflation risk side, again I think it's over -- it's a mixed basket of certain mitigating factors.
Inflation drivers are monitored. We are monitoring them very closely. I think we have some
tools there how we can mitigate it. Our conservative reserving approach, of course does
help and really provide some comfort here and some buffer. The inflation linked bonds
contribute to that. Our real assets, hence, our private equity or real estate portfolio that
we are rebuilding are also mitigating those effects. So I think it's inflation. Yes. In every
second headline, it is on the radar, but I think for us, very, very manageable. So I close
here and will then, Karl, go straight into the Q&A session, I guess.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Well thank you, Clemens, for your distinguished presentation. You're right. We are diving
straight into the Q&A session, and we already have a number of raised hands. So we start
with Henry Heathfield and continue with Vinit Malhotra.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Can you hear me?

Page 20 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Yes. We can hear you.

FINAL

Q - Henry Heathfield

I'm sorry. I didn't quite manage to get in on the previous Q&A. So I would like to start
before we go too far down the rest of the Investor Day. On the key account
management, you mentioned your EUR 100 million benefit in terms of EBIT by 2023.
Essentially, client relationships being pretty important in insurance to me. So I was
wondering if you could just briefly talk me through what kind of touch points you have on
the clients, whether there are underwriters and client relationship managers? Then also,
do you always go through brokers in the renewal process? And is there any chance of
reducing commission where you continue to renew the same book over a period of time,
basically. Does that change in P&C versus like health? And are there any particular lines of
business where you might end up not having to pay commissions to grow this and then
sort of finally, in that whole kind of topic, what really are the advantages of renewing
through brokers as far as having a . Do you see a day where you need brokers less
basically? Just kind of get a brief question on inflation. What kind of rate of inflation are
used for reserving? I think if you give me some specifics? Then how often are the reserve
reviews and adjusted in terms of these rates? Then when there is an adjustment versus
historical? When there's adjustment takes place, how does that flow through the income
statement? If you could just run me through that. So I don't know to some basic questions,
appreciate any .

A - Karl Steinle

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well thank you, Henry, and I apologize for the difficulties you had to dial into that
session earlier. So we start with the first question. Therefore, we have on stage again
about the questions regarding the initiative.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. We touched upon it in the previous session. Generally, the client excellence initiative
is built on what we've done so far, but we have growing relationships with many clients.
We have, of course also a need for collaboration within the organization. That's a bit the
starting point. We feel this is an area of strength. But at the same time, with that
continuous growth with some of our partners, we've had was the time to structure a little
bit more to have a platform for CRM client relationship management. And for the great
the larger clients to organize ourselves around key account management. This is in place.
This is not an organizational change. This is more leveraging the virtual structure of the
company and to secure longer-term growth. The benefit, and this is the idea behind
these EBIT targets, the benefit that we want to increase the share of wallet. This is the
major part of the growth story now, broadening client relationships increasing our shares
on existing programs we like, but also developing new business ideas and accessing the
C-suite more consistently and have more leads in the structured space, in particular. So
this is in the context of a continuous improvement rather than a real change.
The broker strategy is unchanged. This is our main origination channel, more than twothirds of the P&C business is through brokers and we have excellent relationships. We feel

Page 21 of 62



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

that the brokers are not only distributors, originators, but also increasingly bring new
ideas. I spoke about the protection gap earlier on this morning. I think the broker
community is very good at tapping into new opportunities. And my sense, looking forward
to the next few years is that there importance will grow in P&C, and we want to partner
with them. So there's no plan or any idea to change gears here. I think we are an
organization, which relies on a broker of the broker channel. We have excellent
relationship, as I said. So the client excellence initiative is very much in line with that broker
positioning. No change expected going forward.

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

So on the inflation, Henry, the sort of the average amount, again is included in our
reserving process. So if we add another year, the implicit inflation will add to our historical
sort of view on the inflation. So implicitly, historically, we have, on average, don't nail me
down on that number, but probably roughly 2.5% of implicit historical inflation baked into
our reserving anyways. So that will add to our reserve position here. Then we will do an
assessment if any loadings are needed to certain lines of business in terms of inflation
that we see currently in the market. So that's a yearly exercise when we look close at our
reserves, and that's something our external auditor is looking into as well when we do the
yearly reserving study. So that's a yearly exercise. On both elements, the inherent sort of
the incremental inflation and post loading will form part of our reserves heading for yearend. Of course we'll then flow through the P&L.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

So Henry, I hope that has answered your question. But if not, please raise your hand again
and we can discuss it even further. The next question is coming from Vinit Malhotra and
after that. So we have a question from Andrew Ritchie again.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Can you hear me?

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Now I can hear you.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. So first question for Clemens is on Slide 13 and maybe linked to what was just said,
but when you say potential loading for year-end '21 under review, presumably for U.S.
social inflation and other such topics or even casualty each broadly. What are the risks we
are looking at here? Could you help us understand would this be visible in the quarterly
results. So is it something that would be part of the whole process and then in the end
you won't got to see it. So I just would like to understand what magnitude roughly or what
is the risk or any commentary on that? Second question is just on the -- on your opening
remark on inflation given you mentioned that if you had a handover specific inflation index,
I'm just curious, do you have a handover specific inflation index and how is it doing at the
moment? You mentioned 2.5% is in results? Do you think that the recent three, four, five
months of inflation data is flowing into your inflation index? And do you see any signs for
worry?
Page 22 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Yes, Vinit. So on the inflation, I think if we look at, let's say general inflation, we put aside
for a moment, social inflation. I think the -- it's part of the regular exercise that we do
there in terms of loading. We haven't defined a loading for 2021. will not see anything
there in our Third Quarter results. So it will form part of our reserving exercise for the year.
So I wouldn't expect a really substantial amount there in terms of really loading on what is
in inflation in our reserves already there. But we will revisit that and it will be part of our
exercise here. So I don't expect it to be a large magnitude the same counts for social
inflation. I think we've covered that last year. So it's yes, it's -- we've seen an uptick there. I
think we will see an uptick there in terms of litigations, et cetera, et cetera. You know that
when courts come back into and back into place that we do expect to pick up there. But
our exposure there is really limited, so we aren't exposed to the large accounts there. So I
think on social inflation, I'm not too worried for our exposure as well that will form part of
our yearly exercise as well. But again nothing really material that we see there at the
moment.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. It looks like we only have 1 --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

I think -- Vinit, I think I dropped one of your questions. So the -- yes, I think there was a
question on Hannover Re specific inflation index. I would love to have that, to be honest,
and our actuals as well but it's very difficult, of course because you really have to track sort
of you have to take all currency, all lines of business, all regions, et cetera, you have to
track index clauses in your contracts, you have to make assumptions on many areas. So
that is a very complicated and very difficult exercise to have an index. So it's nothing that I
would call it a specific index. However what we do is that we really look specifically into
those baskets and see what we can do there to mitigate inflation there, and that's what I
was referring to, I think with repricing, with these index clauses, et cetera, the inflation
lingers on top, et cetera, et cetera. So it does overall, and we do sensitivity analysis on a
yearly basis, we have an our risk committee. We have in our board when we decide about
inflation-linked bonds, et cetera, how we address inflation is very much on our agenda
very regularly, but it's rather an overall picture. And again I think overall, we do feel very
comfortable with the position that we have there.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

So right now, it looks like we only have one question left to answer, and that is from
Andrew Ritchie.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Sorry to go back to this topic. I'm just trying to clarify, Clemens, I think there's a risk of
people getting confused. When you say our inflation assumption embedded in reserves is
2.5%. I'm always wary of company saying that because that's not your claims cost
assumption is that's the back solve CPI number. I mean it just strikes me, there's an awful
lot more granularity aside from an overall 2.5%. I don't understand that the messaging
here is that looking at current inflation, you're still happy you're talking about maybe
Page 23 of 62



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

adjustments, but you're still happy that we should see normal levels of runoff from your
reserves with the inflation environment as we see it today. So I guess that's the first
question. I just think I'm skeptical that you can give us this overall CPI number. I'm sure
there must be a lot more detail behind it and claims cost is a lot higher, but I just wanted
some reassurance on that. The fact that we so still seeing normal levels of runoff as things
stand. The other question was you didn't cover the topic, but you are responsible for it,
just on IFRS 17, I mean there's only one year left of current IFRS. What's the latest thoughts
in terms of impact on financials? Is it significant? Does it help transparency in any way?
What's your latest thinking on it?

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Andy -- Andrew, so on inflation, I think -- thank you for clarifying that or give me the
chance to clarify that. So the point that I tried to make is it's when we talk about reserving
and inflation on reserving, what people are mainly referring to are often referring to is
inflation rates that you put on top of your reserves. But the point that I'm trying to make is
that there is also an element of something that is called historical assumptions that just
comes out of the techniques, the actual techniques that we use, so there is some
incremental inflation already baked into our reserving. That is often forgotten. That's why I
wanted to refer to it, so often forgot there is some incremental part in there. Then, of
course you have to do the exercise and see what are -- and that's exactly, as you said,
Andrew, it's a very detailed exercise.
You cannot just pick CPI, et cetera, you have to go into your lines of business in duration,
your currencies, your exposure, et cetera, look at costs duration of your liabilities, et
cetera. It was really to get a sense on what is probably overall baked into our reserves.
That's on our overall portfolio. But of course when it comes to your reserve setting long
tail, that's the approach that we have very detailed look into our exposure into specific
loadings. That's what we will do at year-end 2021. Then, of course when it comes to shortterm spikes in working -- in labor costs, in lumber costs, et cetera, what we've been
talking about when we talk about impacts of hurricane seasons, et cetera, that is
something that you have to rate into your initial reserve setting as well when we put up
large loss reserves. And again I think we've been it more on a conservative side there
when we define our budgets. But of course at the first of January 2021, we didn't know
where inflation would go in 2021. But overall, again I think with all these buckets, we do
feel comfortable on the reserving position.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So a normal runoff would still be a fair assumption?

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Yes. I think so that would still be for 2021 a fair assumption. But again Andrew, there will be
many factors when we look at our reserves in 2021, and we will be reporting about those.
On IFRS 17, yes, we could -- Andrew, I have managed not to mention it, right? So we could
talk hours about it. You're perfectly right. Yes. I mean if you ask me, I've spent 20 years
with KPMG. I think my first day when I started with KPMG in 1990, there was talk about an
accounting standard, a common accounting standards also for the U.S. that would add
transparency, and what you work a lot easier. So have we -- has the standard where the
Page 24 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

standard reach that -- it's a difficult question. But I think the attempt is still and the way we
have approached this standard. This is not only about accounting standards you know that
there's a lot of pain, which goes into that if you do it right, because we don't want to just
switch from IFRS 4 to IFRS 17.
So if you do it right, I think there's still the goal, and this is how we look at the standard,
we still have the goal to use that really to add transparency to our cash flows worldwide
on the P&C, but particularly also on the Life & Health side. So I do believe that with the
actual databases that we are building, et cetera, where you have all cash flows to hand
that adds transparency internally, both for us in terms of steering but also for you in terms
of transparency, particularly on the Life & Health side, I think there is a big step forward in
terms of KPIs. It's really trying to look through that lens on our financial statements to
really look through -- and that's what I actually do every day Andrew, look through your
lens, on our financial statement and see how can we add value with this accounting
standard. This is really what we are diligently working on. It's a tough project. I think for
everyone in the market, we are currently running another impact study. So we are getting
very closer to what I would call a transition balance sheet. Yes. There will be impacts, of
course. I don't want to talk too much about it today and we will have separate sessions on
those, of course. But again I think I'm very optimistic that that will add transparency and
add value also how you look at our financial statements.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well thank you, Andrew. We have another two more questions. One is from Iain Pearce
and then Thomas Fossard.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Yes. So on inflation, I had a question related to the sort of competitive outlook. Obviously
it feels like there's quite a wide range of views on inflation assumptions. So how does that
impact the competitive environment in relation to pricing? Are you sort of at risk have
been a victim to the sort of least conservative set of assumptions that people are taking
very wide inflation assumptions going forward. Then also, in terms of your own thinking in
relation to inflation, I mean has the current outlook changed your risk appetite into any
particular lines of business? Are you looking to grow or shrink in certain areas because of
your views on inflation at the moment? Then just a final one on the sort of shorter-term
risks with the sort of losses we've seen in Q3, how are the industry dealing with
incorporating labor shortages, supply chain disruption into industry loss estimates and do
you think they've been appropriately captured?

A - Clemens Jungsthof el

{BIO 22251357 <GO>}

Yes. Iain, happy to answer those questions. So if we start with the market environment, et
cetera. Of course on the pricing side, this is very much of getting your price right and
incorporate inflation assumptions into your pricing, of course you have to do it line by line,
contract by contract, et cetera. So that will form part of our renewal, of course it's going to
be a big part of our renewal. I do see adjustments there, of course for some lines of
business, some will be more substantial, so I'm not. So I don't think it's necessarily about
competition here. I think we just have to be very, very clear about your assumptions that
you have in terms of inflation. It's probably a bit easier, short term as long term, and you
Page 25 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

know the discussions. That's why I mentioned, I don't want to go into predicting the
unpredictable because is it a long-term trend or not. But I think with our yearly contracts,
we do have the chance to react to that when we go into our renewal season.
And that's how I look at into the setting of our price assumptions here, where we are very
close to the business and to the lines of business. In terms of losses, I think it's very
obvious that inflation and what we've seen there in terms of labor shortages and price
increases, et cetera, will have an impact on the losses, particularly in Q2 and what we've
seen in Q2 and Q3, et cetera, that is for sure. I think this is really about -- and there will be
an impact, of course. So this is really about your reserve setting. Are you a bit more on the
conservative side? How have you take that into your large loss budgeting. Again I think
nobody would have expected it last year when we set our large loss budget that we
come to that level. But I think historically, that's what I was referring to, Iain, historically, I
think we've been a bit more on the conservative side here with sitting within that range.
So there is some buffer here and therefore in our large loss budget, but certainly also in
our reserves. So this is rather around reserves, et cetera, and how that will impact our
earnings. But that buffer will, of course help to dampen that impact.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Then we have a question from Thomas Fossard.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. I just wanted to touch upon the solvency topic and the rating agency model, I don't
think that it's going to be touch on later in the presentation. So I just wanted to ask on
your Solvency II ratio, I think that last year, at the same time, actually, you talked a lot about
your the direction or the trajectory of your solvency that we should expect, bearing in
mind that you had significant top line growth in P&C. I think that you were leading us to
think that the Hannover Re Solvency II ratio should be trending towards to 20% or even a
bit lower. So I think that if you could update on the group solvency trajectory would be of
interest. And also, if you could update on the model and the way you capitalize on the
S&P model and maybe provide the buffer you have over the AAA level, here also, I think
that with the growth that you managed to write in the past years, I would expect -- I would
expect this is a buffer to have significantly reduced because this is really factor-based. So
any update on that would be helpful.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. Thomas, I think on the Solvency II ratio, you've seen we've managed to keep that
quite stable although it's been a very volatile year 2020. So -- but in terms of our limits
and threshold, we report the last Solvency II ratio that we reported was EUR 250 million.
So our limit of EUR 180 million in our threshold of EUR 200 million are unchanged, right?
So that's still the level where we are looking at. Of course the growth that we've seen
during the year, and you will see that in the Third Quarter, we will report on the Solvency II
ratio in our earnings call as well, will slightly have been reduced. So it's a -- you might raise
the question, of course the hybrid issuance that we've done in the First Quarter has
added probably roughly 10percentage points to that ratio. So you might think well, is this
an excessive capital position, et cetera? What are you looking at, but the first reason is
really we wanted to take advantage of the market take opportunity, but it's very difficult,
Page 26 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

and you mentioned it, Thomas, quite rightly that it's very difficult to draw a comparison to
S&P or to other rating models here, right?
Because those are mainly factor-based models, of course. They work differently. Our
internal model, of course is very much reflecting on our diversification where those
models are working different. So it's very difficult to steer to that. But we always mention
when we were referring to our Solvency II measure, model that the model is very different
and that the capital position there is different as well. So we wanted to make sure that
was also the reason why we took the chance in the First Quarter, that small window where
we start is a good opportunity to release that hybrid bond to increase our buffer in both
Solvency II but also in our rating models. It has created some buffers. I think there's still -- I
don't have a number on top of my head, Thomas, but there is still a substantial buffer also
in our rating models to take advantage of growth going forward.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

So just to make it clear, actually, the S&P model is not a constraint for you at the present
time to grow further your book over the next -- over the next years?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Now at the moment, Thomas, again that was the reason why we wanted to add some
buffer to the model as well. That was the reason for the main reason or one of the
reasons for the hybrid bond issuance, and that will not limit us this year or next year in
terms of our growth.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Thank you, all for all your questions. Currently, we don't have any further questions. So
therefore, we are ready for a break, and I'm sure you are, too. So we will resume in about
10 minutes time. So let's say 10 minutes after the hour for Sven's presentation
(Break)
Welcome back to the second part of our Investor Day. I hope you enjoyed your coffee
break. The next highlight that awaits us is the presentation of Sven. This time, Sven has
something rather unusual and exciting in-store for us. In the past, when has taken a deep
dive into specific topics or business line. For today we felt it might be helpful to provide an
overview of the current status of the property and casualty reinsurance market and give
you the bigger picture of how we are tackling the opportunities we see going forward.
With that, I hand over to Sven.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Also a warm welcome from my side. As Karl says, I want to talk
a little bit about how we see our midterm outlook on the growth and profitability side of
our P&C business. Jean-Jacques has already mentioned and covered the strategic
initiatives at group level. So the APAC initiative and customer excellence, innovation and
digital, in particular, so I will not cover those as part of my presentation. But I would like to
Page 27 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

give you an idea of what we are doing underneath those group strategic initiatives on the
P&C side. So for that, I will talk a little bit about the market environment. I will then cover
our positioning and give you some key takeaways towards the end of the presentation.
From a macroeconomic perspective, we, of course have seen a sharp recession in 2020
due to the Covid-19 lockdown situation. Already in 2021, we are seeing the global
economy for the most part, getting back on a growth trajectory and a relatively sharp
recovery in the Americas and then the APAC region, but even the EMEA region should
reach the pre-Covid level in the year 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is helping the global insurance industry to get back to a more normalized growth
trajectory. Also here, we have seen a somewhat lower growth trajectory in 2020, which, of
course has to do with the underlying activity. But it's our expectation that we will return to
more normal growth patterns in the very near future. What is very pleasing is that from a
rate environment, commercial insurance rates have been tracking positive for four years in
a row now. So we get rate increases on rate increases for quite some time and that this
development even accelerated in the last 1.5 years.
At the same time, we can say that the reinsurance industry has been resilient when it
comes to its capital base. So even in the difficult cohort year 2020, the overall capital
available for writing the business was not impacted negatively. In the last few years, we
have seen that the traditional capital was slightly outgrowing the alternative capital, which
was more stable in the last three years. In the four years prior to that, it was exactly the
other way around, where the alternative capital base was growing more quickly. But what
that means is that we are seeing in a growing economy and in growing insurance markets
that this is meeting a relatively stable capital base to underwrite the business. That
development is actually helping traditional reinsurers in the ongoing flight to quality. And
as we will see on the following slides, we feel that we are particularly well positioned to
be a good and successful partner to our clients with the additional demand.
It comes to the market dynamics, we live in a rather volatile and interesting times. JeanJacques has already covered the sustainability and ESG topic in his presentation. Here, the
industry will play a major role, as I said during my answer in the Q&A in order to transform
the world economy to get carbon neutral. There's a very significant amount of
investments necessary, which will create additional opportunities on the insurance side. At
the same time, we are seeing that our ceding companies are increasingly risk-averse for
example, due to the Covid-19 experience, which meant that we could benefit from
significant additional demand on, for example, structured solutions, but it also means that
session rates are trending positive, so they are increasing after a period where they have
been mostly stable or even reducing at times.
We are now seeing a trend that cession rates are actually slightly increasing, which, of
course is a good development from a reinsurance point of view. At the same time, we all
face technical logical progress topics. Some of them are more internally oriented, so the
automation topics, improving the efficiencies. We are getting to a situation where the
industry is using more and more data standards, which, of course helps to make the
entire industry more efficient. Therefore, policyholders, at the end of the day hopefully,
spend less money to cover the general cost of the industry, but rather have more of the
Page 28 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

money available for claiming claims. But there are also market facing developments like
distribution new distribution models or improvement in underwriting or new products
coming out of data analytics.
Then, of course you all know that from a natural catastrophe point of view, the last five
years have shown that we are seeing more and more losses coming out of used to be
site perils like bushfires, flood events or ice storms in states that are not known for that
kind of peril that that is increasing the volatility and the model uncertainty, again fueling
additional demand for reinsurers. And last but not least, on the cyber side, we have an
ever-growing demand for that product on the insurance side. the increased frequency of
cyber incidents, particularly during the lockdown phase has certainly led to an even more
dynamic situation on the demand side here.
So overall, the situation we are in creates good opportunities for reinsurers. And
particularly for those reinsurers that we'll be able to react fast, flexible and reliable to
those issues. So how did we do in the last few years? You can see and on the last next
few slides, I'm going to compare us to a defined peer group. So you can see that over
the last 10 years, we and the peer group enjoyed a very good period of growth. The peer
group grew by almost 7%, which is certainly a very significant and good and robust growth
figure.

Bloomberg Transcript

But during the same time, Hannover Re managed to outgrow the peer group by achieving
a combined average growth rate of a little over 10%, which means that our market share
in this defined group has increased from 17% coming from 2011 to 23% in 2020.
Of course the generation of profit is more important to us than the generation of
premium as already explained in an earlier answer. So how did we do on that side? When
you look at the graph, the line is indicating our percentage share of the premium pool
amongst us and the peer group, but the bars are showing you the EBIT share of us within
the peer group.
And you can see that very constantly, we had a higher EBIT share of the entire EBIT, then
we had the premium share, which is demonstrating that our focus really is on profitability.
That we, of course need premium as a transmission mechanism to generate profitability,
but that our strategy of increasing our share of the EBIT pool, which we talked with you
about a few years ago during an Investor's Day has actually worked. On that basis, we are
very bullish that we will be able to continue on this trajectory, and I will give you a few
reasons where we see those business opportunities coming from.
The last slide in this part of the presentation, I wanted to demonstrate the volatility side of
the business, again comparing us with our peer group. We feel that the industry overall
over the last 10 years has done a remarkable good job of estimating what the loss
situation will be, so the capability of the industry to deal with risk and have a good view on
the risk situation is sound.
Of course not every year, but over a 10-year average, the result is actually quite
impressive. At Hannover Re, we actually managed to be exactly within our estimated and
Page 29 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

projected natural catastrophe budget over this period. And all those numbers actually do
include the Covid-19 losses.

FINAL

And pleasingly, we also managed to have a lesser volatility of our NatCat numbers
compared to the peer group. So again this, in our view, demonstrate that we have a good
planning capability and that particularly on the natural catastrophe side that by means of
buying a retrocession, we are also in a position to be less volatile than the average peer.
So let me start talking about our positioning. Jean-Jacques talked about our strong culture
this morning and I wanted to give you a few examples where we see the benefits and
particularly our strength on the cultural side. I will not go through all the items listed here,
but we will only focus on a few.
But let me first start by reemphasizing again that we have a long-term relationship
approach, which is very important for our clients that they know that they will have us as a
partner through the good, but also through the difficult times.

Bloomberg Transcript

We enjoy situation where our staff is staying with us for a very long time, which means that
our underwriters when they sit in front of a client, a, have a very personal relationship with
that client for a long period; and b, of course we have accumulated a lot of experience
which again is something that is important in the decision-making process and makes us a
particularly reliable partner for our clients.
We are delegating and empowering our people. So when our underwriters travel, our
clients are talking to decision makers, which is different to approach some of our peers
have where marketing and decision-making can be different functions for us, it's not.
And the fourth item I wanted to mention is that we are very focused on tailored solutions.
So we are listening to the clients, and we want to structure something together with
them, which is filling the demand from their side according to their needs and not
according to a prestructured product we want to sell. And as you have seen on the
growth trajectory, that is actually honored very much by the clients. So I would say very
strongly embedded into our culture and a very positive aspect.
So what do we do in addition to the group's strategic initiatives? What are the initiatives I
want to talk about with you today? In the next slides, I will give you an idea about our
approach to tailor-made solutions. I will talk about the protection gap topic in combination
with parametrics. I will give you an idea about our risk appetite on the specialty side. And
last, but not least, from a regional perspective, I would like to talk about Latin America in
addition to what we already talked about on APAC earlier today.
So let me start with the tailor-made business. Here, as I already indicated, the idea that
through listening to the clients and by focusing on special services, we are willing to
provide to those clients that we can structure reinsurance that is tailor-made for their
particular needs. We are taking this as a holistic multiline approach, which is not only on
the structured side but also on the traditional side, creating additional demand from our
clients.
Page 30 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

For them, it's very interesting because we can help them to deal with topics like changes
in the regulatory environment. We can help them to steer their capital base, and we can
help them to actually grow their own business by offering those services.
And examples where that has been very successful for us are on the telematics side,
where, together with our ceding companies, we were able to develop tariffs, which takes
the telematics technology into account, which in certain markets gives those clients a
competitive edge over their competitors, helping them to grow, and they are quite happy
to reward us with buying additional reinsurance from us.
At times, reinsurance that would not make its way into the commercial market, but it's
only really reserved for reinsurance partners that are helping with the product
development. So a very important aspect is having the technical capability of doing it, and
secondly, to be close enough to the client to actually feel that demand and fill that
demand.
Other examples, which we have seen are on the natural catastrophe side, where we are
increasingly using also the technical parametric coverages. On the cyber side, where,
again in many markets, we have been able, particularly in the SME space, to create
products and tariffs for insurance products together with our clients, helping them to
penetrate their markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next item I wanted to touch upon is our ideas about the NatCat protection gap and
where do we see our role here in that respect. So as Jean-Jacques said earlier today
there clearly is still a significant protection gap on the natural catastrophe side.
And both the public and the private sector are very anxious to learn about new ideas,
particularly on the distribution side, how in many situations, more simplified products,
should -- can be created in order to make particularly the less affluent people better
protected from the pyramids of natural catastrophes.
This, of course is deeply embedded into our ESG strategy. In order to find these solutions,
you need both the technical capability on the distribution side, but you also need the risk
capability of structuring those products and making them really simple to use.
So for this, the parametric solution is almost perfect because we can clearly identify what
region, what peril exactly do you want to cover. And by not having too many human
interaction in those models that we are using on the parametric side, the products we are
creating are very cost effective, they are very simple to use, also for the end customer,
very simple to use.
And very often, they are related to technology like mobile phones, where even without
having access to any broker or any insurance companies themselves, those policyholders
are able to -- just with a few -- yes, just with a few hits on their phone to buy those
products.

Page 31 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

We have experience with those on the agricultural side on the natural catastrophe side,
and we can well see that this is also an avenue into us being more active in the field of
private-public partnerships, where, in the future, maybe even coverages like pandemic
and/or cyber may be an issue, and we feel we are well prepared to deal with those
topics.
I talked about our risk appetite, about natural catastrophe exposures in the Q&A earlier
today where I said that maybe our appetite for volatility is less pronounced than
elsewhere, that was actually very different in specialty lines.
We already have a significantly higher market share in specialty lines compared to our
average market share. When I talk about specialty, I'm talking particularly about topics like
marine, aviation, credit surety and agricultural business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that business has performed very well for us in the past. And despite us having a
significant market share already, we certainly have the ambition to do even more. One
way of achieving that is getting closer to our clients. Here, the regional activities we have
in the APAC region, but also in other parts of the world, and I will talk about Latin America
in a second, are getting us closer to the clients, and therefore, also closer to local
specialty opportunities which are maybe not necessarily brokered through one of the big
specialty wholesale markets, but business, you can only really write when you are close to
your customer.
In addition, we, of course still have quite a few traditional relationships with clients that are
more based on the traditional property and casualty business and adding specialty
business to those relationships through our customer excellence initiative will give us
additional access also to the specialty business coming from those customers.
And the last opportunity, I would like to talk with you about is our approach in Latin
America. We talked about APAC in the last two Investor Days, but we're also very active in
Latin America.
The macroeconomic situation in Latin America is certainly not as strong as in Asia, but still
we have many rising economies, and we have, in those economies, very often similar
situation compared to APAC. That is that the insurance penetration is still relatively low in
many of those countries and there with a growing middle class is a strong additional
demand for covering property risks, in particular, on the personal line side, but also with
the economy is getting stronger, the commercial risk demand from those countries, which
are very often also agricultural based, is on the increase as well.
So of course we want to take maximum advantage of that opportunity and are working
together with the feeding companies to provide additional products for personal and
commercial lines solutions. We want to close the protection gap, as I already said,
particularly in Latin America, the parametric basis of providing coverage has a very good
momentum right now.

Page 32 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

So quite a few of our successes on that side are actually happening in Latin America. And
for us, very often, we have the added benefit that we can transfer our experience, which
we have already gained from the APAC region, into Latin America as well. So we do not
have to reinvent the wheel twice.
Taking that all together, how do we feel about our 5-year outlook on the development of
our business? Here, you can see also an answer to Thomas' question he asked us earlier,
that we feel that we should have a sustainable growth of at least 7% over the next five
years.
On the right-hand side, you can see that we feel that this growth will continue to be well
diversified. So we see all regions of the world growing with the highest growth in the
APAC region. But we also see all the business lines growing with the highest growth in the
specialty markets.
Our combined ratio target for that period stays at 96%. But the 70% -- 7% average growth
rate is a little more bullish than the 5% we were talking about earlier, which brings me to
the key takeaways.

Bloomberg Transcript

So from a market environment point of view, the global economy is back on track. We can
report that as a relatively stable reinsurance capital meets a growing demand, which is
good quality reinsurers as they can write more of that business. The market dynamics and
unexpected events are creating additional need for stability and security.
Our positioning, as I said, seems to be good from the results we could demonstrate in
the presentation. We are benefiting from that flight to quality. We are outperforming the
market, both as far as growth rate, but also from a profitability point of view.
We feel we have a clear strategic focus on how we are going about the business, and we
continue to fully concentrate on the bottom line and we want to be an excellent partner
for our clients, the fast, flexible and reliable partner, which is helping them with their
performance and how they can grow their business.
I demonstrated with the opportunities that there is more to say about Hannover Re PNC
than just the group strategic initiatives. Of course they are extremely important for PNC as
well. But there's also a lot of underlying momentum that will fuel additional growth in the
future. With that, I would say we can go to the Q&A and I'm very happy to get your
questions.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Well thank you, Sven, for your sound insights and food for thought. For the Q&A, I'd like
now to ask to take the stage and as a member of the Board, she is responsible for
reinsurance business in continental -- with continental and African clients for sale as well as
for ILS in structured reinsurance. To round things up, she also oversights the retro covers
we are buying. (Operator Instructions) We have already got some questions, at least I see

Page 33 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

some requests. We start with Andrew Ritchie first and continue with Vinit Malhotra.
Andrew, please go ahead.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

FINAL

Can you hear me?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Sven, I guess just a question, if you could give us some sense as to your outlook for the
pricing environment in 2022 in light of the events we've seen this year, the losses we've
seen this year?

Bloomberg Transcript

And I guess my second question is linked. I struggle when investors ask me to try and put
2021 losses, catastrophe losses, in context because broadly speaking, it looks like the
industry will miss Cat budgets again.
And I can't judge as to whether 2021 is a normal year, above normal, particularly things like
just seem very expensive for a relatively small storm and obviously the German floods as
well. So I guess in that context, number one is a sense of renewal pricing in '22. Number
two, how normal is the loss experience in '21? And in that context as well, is catastrophe
pricing really, really adequate? Yes. I know you're not really focusing on that as a growth
area, but is it in any way adequate?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you very much, Andrew. Let me start with your pricing question in general. On
the cat side, particularly the Cat pricing side, I will ask to comment. So what is our
expectation going into the year 2022? We are confident that the general positive pricing
momentum will continue to be in place. We have seen that in 2020 and in 2021, that the
market reacted very well to particular loss situations. So with the general positive trend,
I'm optimistic that those parts of the world, which have seen the losses will get those kind
of rate increases that are necessary to deal with the losses. So they will be higher and a
time significantly higher than the average increase, but both on the insurance and on the
reinsurance side. the underlying pricing trend should be a positive on a global basis across
all product lines, that would be our expectation.
When it comes to your question, how average or not average is the 2021 Cat here? I think
your absolute -- observation is absolutely spot on. We didn't have that many events in
2021, but two of them being the flooding in Europe, but also hurricane either are very
expensive in themselves. Partly, this, of course particularly on Hurricane either is fueled by
the inflation topics we were talking about earlier. So that certainly plays a major role here.
But at this stage, I would say we are still in an average cat year but with two rather unusual
losses and the flooding in Europe is, of course very special as well because that's going to
Page 34 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

turn out to be the highest insured loss in Germany ever which is quite remarkable for an
isolated localized flood event, and many seating companies have tested and some even
exhausted their programs on a localized event like that when, I guess they actually bought
it for the big European storm event.
So that's an interesting observation in itself, and we would not be surprised if that means
that there is going to be additional demand for vertical cat cover on top of the rate
increases we can expect for the business that has been impacted. But I would now like to
hand over to on her view when it comes to the appropriateness on the cat pricing.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. Thanks, Sven. Hello, Andrew. Hello, everyone. Also welcome from my side. Coming to
the cat pricing, I'm still relaxed from the pricing side, from a pure modeling and actuarial
pricing side.
You know we model our NatCat exposures with IIR. You also know that the new pricing
trends will be included in the update. In addition, we have our own view to the model
outcome. So it's not just pure underwriting by modeling output is more together with our
own expertise and our own view on certain climate risk and flooding and wind exposure.

Bloomberg Transcript

So when I'm looking at our portfolio, we are currently writing. We have certain levels on
profitability. And from this point of view, we have the highest level in the history or at least
in the last 20 years roughly, and this reflects that the pricing as such is not wrong.
I mean as Sven just outlined, there are two major and very special events with but I'm
quite relaxed with the pricing. Also the sophisticated model agency, they include the news
update in their pricing and most of our NatCat writings are on a 1-year contract basis, so
that if it's climate change, we can adjust the year by year. This -- I hope this answers your
question, Andrew.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Sorry, Just to clarify, did you say when you said its highest in 20 years, what do you mean?
The profitability of our account book?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. Absolutely right. On certain levels, I said. So we have --

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

On certain layers?

A - Unidentified Speaker
On our profitability layer. So we have where we say technical results, then after
management expenses and after capital cost and then I mean with different level where
we measure our profitability.
Page 35 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

So now you can say how good is the expected loss in the NatCat modeling with right
online layers of 1% and -- but based on this model outcomes, this is the highest level on
our profitability, how we measure profitability. So this is excess profitability after capital
cost for the worldwide portfolio.

FINAL

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

But Andrew of course talking about it in the context of pricing, not about the actual
experience, so the quality of the pricing, the way we look at it has been the highest in a
long period.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Absolutely.
Okay. Thank you, Andrew. So the next question is from Vinit Malhotra and after that, we
have a question from Will Hardcastle.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

I think you should be able to hear me now. Can you hear me now?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Yes. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Sven, just picking up on two topics you mentioned in today's speech. One is the specialty
lines. I'm tempted to go back to 2011 Investor Day when (inaudible) specialty lines and
lower cat volatility was mentioned, so 10 years ago. I mean is this really that much more
juice left in this lemon, sorry to pick up some Clemens' comment, but is there more
competition? I have heard from one of the peers, one of these other ones in France
saying, specialty lines is going to be the focus as well.
So just comment on where you see the market appetite for yourselves? And second
question, if I can ask, again is picking up on tailored -- tailor-made solutions, which -- I
mean yes, I think the phrase is being used by you a bit new, but it probably has been used
by you in the past, I think beginning in somewhere in Australia a few years ago seen some
of these transactions.
But I'm just trying to understand, is this new and then will catalyze growth? Or is this
something that you think has been going on and you're just putting a phrase to it today to
keep in line with the market? And in line with maybe a side question is, you said at least
7% or is it about 7% just so I don't miss that nuance

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Thank you, Vinit. Let me take the specialty on the growth question, and I ask to answer
your tailor question. So on the specialty side, yes, there's still juice left in that field for us.
Page 36 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Given our already high market share, it was the area in the years '17 to '19 where actually
we did quite a bit of cycle management activity, given that both the insurance and the
reinsurance pricing was not always meeting our cost of capital requirements during that
period.
So quite willingly, we gave up some of the market share we've previously had. So now
with the better pricing, that, of course is ground we want to win back again. So from a
vertical growth point of view, there is scope to further grow. I hope I gave you some ideas
about how we horizontally want to grow the specialty business by embedding that into
even more client relationships and helping with our product knowledge clients that are not
already in the specialty field to become a specialty player.
So from that point of view, we see this as a continuously growing class for us, where we
have a lot of expertise, and there is certainly still scope in our risk appetite to grow our
market share in that area. On the growth side, it's the same like we are using for the
current guidance, Andrew, where we are seeing greater or equal 5%. I would say this is
now a greater or equal 7%. And

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Okay. On the structured reinsurance side or tailor-made solutions side, how we label
it? Sven mentioned already in his presentation that we listen first to our client. So it's not a
product as such, it's really a solution, an individual solution.
And these solutions are discussed with the C level and it's based on capital and risk
management. So it's not giving cat capacity with a share rather than listen, what is the
need, the demand for reinsurance from a risk and capital point of view from a client
perspective?
Then in an interactive discussion, trying to match or find the best solution. This can be on
growth surplus relief type of transaction, it can be volatility cover and it can be also quite
innovative, so from straightforward to quite innovative.
And to give you a feeling, in the last decade, we tripled the volume of that business in our
units. So we are currently writing more than EUR 3 billion in that division. The last two
years, so this year and the last year, that was a record year, number-wise, of new
transaction we have underwritten.
From the profit we are realizing in that business area, we don't show immediately all of
the profit because we -- especially if it's medium we realize in the next years. So there is a
huge volume of embedded margins still in our reserves on that business.
What we have achieved so far, profit-wise on that business, xRoCA, excess return on
capital allocated, is double digit. So between 15% and in the last year that was the xRoCA
on that business.

Page 37 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Yes. One further comment maybe on that is that new? No that is not new. You mentioned
also Australia. This is a long time ago, and there were certain cases in the past. But our
focus was not on -- yes, was always on the solution and structuring side and taking into
account all aspects of underwriting this is not pure underwriting.
This is also accounting knowledge, whether it's Solvency II or IFRS 17, it's also compliance,
it's regulatory knowledge and structuring knowledge. So this is how we addressed it all
over in the past, and we write those transactions normally for 100%.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

If I can ask again. Sven, I think you said this is not just in structure, which I know in EUR 3
billion, but there's also something coming up in traditional book. That will be new, right?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes. That's something I just wanted to mention, Vinit. I mean the reason why we used the
phrase tailor-made rather than structured reinsurance is indeed that it's the approach we
are talking about here that together with the clients, we are identifying their needs. And
very often, that translates into structured reinsurance. But the example I was talking about
earlier, like telematics or cyber, that was actually all traditional opportunities, which we
created together with the clients and which is actually helping them to also grow their
business. It's not only about existing business, but it's also giving clients the opportunity to
grow their business.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
And Sven, if I may I can add on that, Vinit, that the solution focus is also, Sven mentioned,
the cyber area and he mentioned also earlier on the parametric -- he also mentioned
earlier the parametric case where we cover cloud outage.
So we try to find new solutions and teaming up with our clients and having the partnership
approach. One other example is also on the ILS side on the cat bond activities we are
doing. This has also the solution focus and try to find the individual we spoke solutions for
the clients rather than the product.
Yes. Thank you, Vinit. We still have a few requests to speak left for to be precise, we
continue with Will Hardcastle.

Q - William Fraser Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Just a couple of questions on NatCat really. The first one is S&P recently published a
report like when they're now looking at NatCat performance relative to budgets. Do you
have an expectation that capital charges on NatCat could be loaded for those companies
where budgets haven't proven to be as robust as yourselves?
And the second question is -- it's more of a statement followed by a question. But one
bearers view in the industry I hear is it would suggest that climate change is leading to

Page 38 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

increased frequency, severity of NatCats. Therefore, budgets in general aren't set
robustly enough.

FINAL

But your budget is actually proven to be spot on as you provided over the last 10 years.
The question, therefore, is, is the last 10-year average than your normal in your view that
would imply all budgets accurate and implicitly the peers budgets aren't? Or do you think
yours is still overly conservative perhaps in the last 10 years isn't their reflection?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for those questions, Will. No. I would not necessarily say that the budget of
the last 10 years is going to be a good pointer for what's going to happen in the next 10
years.
So that, of course is something we are reviewing very carefully, particularly in the context
of climate change and the various site perils, which we have seen, yes, materialize over
the last five years, which were certainly surprising the industry and were also surprising us
at times.

Bloomberg Transcript

So from that point of view, it is under review and I guess the industry overall, in case they
are willing to write more or less the same exposure on the NatCat side, we'll have to
allocate more budget to the probability of loss in future years, which in itself is not
necessarily a problem if that is reflected in the pricing so that the capital that is required
to, yes, support that budget is making its
So from that point of view, as mentioned, our view on pricing on that side right now would
be such that we would answer that question positively. When it comes to your S&P part of
the question, I don't have a good answer for you on that side. I mean S&P were certainly
not telling me their ambitions on how they want to deal with the results of their study. So
sorry, I can't help you on that side.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you, Will, for that question. We continue with Henry from MorningStar.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Very nice presentation, Sven. I just had three questions, really. Just on -- I mean kind of
going back to comment a bit. I think generally, we're seeing higher from what I can tell we
understand, we're seeing there were higher frequency, lower with the industry and for so
you mentioned I think another one.
I was wondering if you could comment maybe on whether that itself a bit more to return
tie capital than it does traditional reinsurance? I mean I see traditional reinsurance being
there really as kind of the big guys, the back stock. But if we're getting higher frequency,
lower severity and maybe that moves demand a little bit away from you guys not.

Page 39 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Then my second question really is just down to a bit more of an operational
understanding of what the way reinsurance works? So I understand that in commercial,
you generally have sort of a primary lead and then in reinsurance, you have a similar sort
of primary lead, but it's less operation delegation control, it's more down to the quantum.
I was wondering whether you might sort of just kind of outline a little bit whether my
understanding there is correct? And whether you might be able to provide a rough
indication of what proportion of your customers that have you are sort of a primary lead
on, you're the biggest layer?
Then lastly, on the specialty. I mean I love the business model in terms of specialty, the
cost-conscious culture. Just kind of move back to two minutes question on squeezing the
lemon really.
How do you -- how much opportunity do you see -- could you give us an indication of how
much opportunity you see to expand your specialty lines with clients, maybe you don't
have specialty lines with or where you can take specialty from peers? And if it's taking
specialty from peers, there's a bigger opportunity then how are you able to do that?
What's your -- what will differentiate her versus unit Those are my 3.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Very good. Thank you very much. On the frequency severity question this is driving
demand away from us and more into the traditional -- alternative capital space. We have
not necessarily seen that in the last few years that this is moving one way or the other.
Of course the cat part of the market is where the alternative capital providers are
featuring the most because, as mentioned, its 12-month contract period business, so this
works for collateralized reinsurance.
So there are an important part of that market, but I don't see them behaving very
significantly different compared to the traditional markets when it comes to what they
want to write, how they write it. So of course it always goes in cycles.
I mean you know that particularly the aggregate covers have seen losses over the last
number of years. So those markets, which historically participated in those maybe have
less of a risk appetite today which creates opportunities for other players that maybe
were not so heavily involved. So in that context, the market shares between traditional
markets and ILS markets may shift from time to time. But I think that's more the general
cyclical nature of how the business is transacted rather than the source of capital would
be my answer.
When it comes to your questions on lead positions, yes, you're right, typically, commercial
business and reinsurance business is placed on a subscription or syndicated basis where
you have a lead reinsurer taking a share, but not writing the placement for 100%.

Page 40 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

There are a few exceptions to that. So most of what is doing in her structured unit would
actually be placed with one reinsurer only and that reinsurer then is, of course taking
100%, but the bulk of the business is transacted exactly the way you were describing that.
And when it comes to the number of contracts we are writing, our lead position on the
number of contracts we are writing is above 20%. If you look at the premium, it's actually
higher than 40% of the business which we are writing, where we do have the lead
position.
That, of course is easily explained. When we are setting our own terms and conditions, we
are, of course willing to take higher shares, and therefore, the percentage of the
premium base is higher than the percentage of the underlying contract base.
So that hopefully gives you an idea where we are in that perspective. Specialty and our
cost-conscious culture go together very well. Our approach to specialty underwriting is a
very centralized approach. So most of that business, we're actually writing out of
Hannover in Germany.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course it's embedded into our local activities and our local PNC colleagues help us in
getting close to the clients and staying in touch with the clients, but the underwriting itself
is mostly done, as I said, out of one location only.
But to maybe give you an idea how being close to clients and being cost conscious at the
same time can work. For example, the Chinese surety market, where that product was
hardly available in the Chinese market five years ago, but all the various provinces have
now opened up to the product of surety.
And we, of course have a lot of worldwide surety knowledge. So what we are doing is
being close to those Chinese customer that want to enter the line of surety through our
local Shanghai colleagues, but the expertise really is put into the equation by our
colleagues in Hannover, which is both supporting the cost-conscious culture, but it's also a
good example for areas where we see further growth opportunities on the specialty side.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Sorry, just on your 40% volume versus 20% number of contracts. I mean this overall
seems like a pretty get the feeling of a price taker kind of industry. But does that give you
any pricing power or not really?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Well of course we would say yes, it does give us some pricing power, but within region -within reason, I would say. I mean we are not minded to sell on price only, we are minded
to sell through our qualities, which we described earlier today.
So that does give us a little bit of an advantage. But can I charge significantly more
compared to where the average pricing is and the client would still give me that business?

Page 41 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

It happens. But of course that would not apply for the bulk of the business.

FINAL

But clients are more sensitive on walking away from us. So the pricing we achieved tends
to be more sticky. So while that's difficult for me to win business by being more
expensive, it's also less likely that I will lose business just because I'm a little more
expensive, if that gives you a good feeling about it.

A - Unidentified Speaker
We still have more questions than time, so we are already run over the time budget.
Unfortunately, owing to time constraints, we only can give the opportunity for answering
those questions which have not been asked yet at the later Q&A session. Therefore, I
would like to thank you all for your very good questions and also Sven and for answering
them. We are now breaking for another coffee for about 20 minutes, and we'll resume at
half past the hour.
(Break)

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Welcome back, everybody, and thanks for being so punctual. We can now dive straight
into the last presentation of today with a focus on life and health.
Claude has given some remarkable presentations in the past few years. And he has
applied his outstanding presentation skills to a whole range of topics, and today's offering
is no exception. He will be talking about longevity, business, in particular, a subject that has
been underrepresented in our external communication. He will talk about a number of
things, and he will talk about where we are right now in that business and what the future
earnings streams look like. So that's enough from my side as a lead in. Therefore, I hand
over to you, Claude.

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everybody, or should I already say good afternoon. Many thanks for
staying. Many thanks for your interest in the last, but hopefully not least presentation of
this Investor Day on the business group, life and health. If I think back a year when we
recommence here on the Investors Day I wonder who of you guys and of ourselves here
thought that we would be, again reconvening in the same setup, this TV studio, this
camera without seeing anybody, I think not too many people, at least not myself. The
advantage of reconvening in the same setup is, of course that you can try and improve
and become better.
I hope that we all have become better in the second time now that we will convene this
TV studio. I'm talking about improving and becoming better like to remind you that you
have all received the feed platform and that we would like you to complete. Ideally,
please complete the form, not putting just a score between one and five, but really put in
your comments. I mean how did you find the topic? How did you find the content? How
did you find the slides? How did you find the presentation? This is extremely important for
us so that we can become better in the future. Last time, I was looking into these
Page 42 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

feedback forms. I mean you gave to my presentation, quite good feedback. I must say it
was quite positive, but there were two remarks that I was seeing that made me think.
I mean there are two people who said, Claude, you're just talking too fast. You talked too
fast. I thought to myself, well, how can it be? It cannot be. I mean me, talking too fast. So I
went through this painful exercise, and you know how painful it is watching your own
presentation on video, and it was painful, I tell you. You know what, it was too fast. I mean I
have problems, myself, to follow my own presentation. So what I tried to do with today
and please give some feedback is really to slow down. It's not easy because I cannot see
reactions, but I try really to slow down. So that's really the first thing.
The second thing, maybe some people asked me, but why did you come on stage with
your mobile phone? I had this clicker with me. It was not my mobile phone. So again this is
not my mobile phone guys. This is the clicker. It's a bit big. It is -- yes, that's it. But that's
what I have here, and that's what I wanted to tell you.

Bloomberg Transcript

So today's topic, longevity. So after a short introduction, I will then really make a spotlight
on longevity, show you some interesting and hopefully, interesting slides on our longevity
business followed by the life and health earnings power. Then afterwards, the key
takeaways as everybody else before me. After that, we'll have the Q&A session. Klaus
will, of course be joining me for the Q&A session so that you can hopefully ask any
questions you might have on the life and health business group in the future.
Okay. Well let's have a look quickly on the last Investor Day. You remember on the last
Investor Day I was talking about the earnings growth drivers of the business group life and
health. I as identifying mainly three drivers. Number one was financial solutions. The
second key growth driver was Asia. The third growth driver was longevity. I can reassure
you, these growth drivers haven't changed over this year because they're still the same
growth drivers for us in the life and health business group.
So what we did at that time, and you see this on the bottom of the slide, at that time, we
were looking into each of these growth drivers, and we were showing you the normalized
EBIT of the past of each of these growth drivers. We were also showing you what we
would expect as normalized EBIT into the future. These were the figures we were
showing you. So you see that there on the financial solutions side, for example, we were
showing you that we would expect an additional EBIT of the upcoming then four years of
EUR 120 million, whereas on the Asian business, we would expect an additional EUR 50
million EBIT over the upcoming four years. In longevity, we would expect an additional EUR
80 million on top of the situation in 2019.
And let's have a look quickly on how we performed in 2020. That's what we showed you
on this graph for each of these growth drivers. So when you look into what we expected
to achieve, what we promised to you and what really happened. So on the financial
solutions side, you see that we have been pretty much spot down. In Asia, we have
overachieved our EBIT expectations by quite a bit. In longevity, the same, we were
overachieving our expectations by quite a bit. So if you look into the earnings growth
drivers, as a whole, I would say that we have been overachieving in 2020. So today what I

Page 43 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

would like to do is really concentrate on longevity, because longevity is one of our most
important business lines that we have within life and health.
So let me maybe start with a little bit of history, how we developed our longevity book
over the past. What you see here in the time line, which starts in '95 and ends up in 2020
is that we have an experience of 25 years of longevity business. What you see here on
this time line are various colors. What we try to do is to sort these colors in a certain way.
So the green dots.
The green years that you see are years in which we have experienced an important
product expansion, whereas the gray dots are years in which we have experienced a very
important system or underwriting system expansion and the orange dots are years in
which we have experienced an important geographic expansion. I would like to quickly go
through all these years. So '95, we started with longevity. And at that time, I must say we
were not really experienced. What was the idea? Well let's start with the product, which -where the life expectancy of people is not too long. Because we're not very sure about all
these things. So we started with a product that we call enhanced annuities. They still exist.
These enhanced annuities. They're mainly in annuities for elderly sick people who have a
very small life expectancy to go, so something between two and 10 years. So that's the
way we started in the U.K. with enhanced annuities.
And you see if you look into this graph that only 13 years later, in 208, we started to look
into the first block transaction into the first deal were of in pension payments. So that was
really a big, big change. What we did there, we concentrated with the same (inaudible) as
before, we concentrated more on blue collar workers than on white collar workers at the
beginning, because blue collar workers have a lower life expectancy, of course than white
collar workers. But we then eventually went into the more and more white collar workers
in the future.
In 2011, you see that we wrote our first index deal. And a few years later, our first longevity
deal, what we call an RPAT, the regular premium annuity treaty for deferred risks. So you
see, so we got more and more comfortable with these long-term liabilities to take on
board. So starting with deferred annuities, which are elderly sick people, we ended in
2015 already with our first deal for deferred annuities for blue and white collars.
We then continued with quite an interesting product in 2016, which is what we call an
automatic regular premium annuity treaty. An automatic treaty, meaning that cedents
upon certain frameworks that we set, can cede us automatically certain blocks of annuity
business. These blocks of annuity business have very clear characteristics. They're very
small in general. They have very little experience. So that become with a global pricing
approach, a more general pricing approach except these deals. So this was in 2016.
And in 2018 we had the first cover for unit-linked business where the liabilities move
together with the underlying funds but were, of course also the premium that we would
get for these liabilities also move. So we would not take any investment risk, but that was
in 2018. So the first powerful unit-linked business. This is the product expansion that we
had.

Page 44 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Now moving to the system expansion. I would like to show you to the year 2000, where
you see that we developed our first underwriting system for deferred annuities -- for
individual dual deferred annuities. It was quite an easy system, where the way we did the
underwriting was the following, we asked some questions. Then based on the answers
that we got and on the diseases these elderly people had at the time, we would then
calculate a life expectancy and then tell the people how high or how low the annuity would
be based uniquely on their life expectancy.
A few years later, in 2007, as you can see, we made a very important system expansion
that we're still using today where we said, you know what, the life expectancy alone is
probably not good enough because you can have diseases where the life expectancy is
exactly the same, but some diseases, or diseases like, let's say a smaller cancer, are
something where you might die very early off. But if you survive the first two years, you're
going to die much, much later on. So the life expectancy is somewhere in between, rather
on a diabetes for example, you would say nobody is dying of a diabetes early on. So
everybody who die probably more or less in the same way. So you see these patterns,
these survival curves of certain diseases, they look totally different. We started to increase
-- to introduce these survival curves into our system. This is what we have been doing in
2017.
Maybe the last point is the geographic expansion. Of course the whole thing started in
the U.K. And as you know, the U.K. Is still our most important region for longevity business.
But if you look into the geographic expansion, you see in 2010, this is this orange dot, the
first dot that we wrote our first longevity deal outside the U.K., it was not really far away
from the U.K. It was up -- sorry, I have to be careful here. It was not very far away. It was in
Ireland.
And in 2014, we wrote our first longevity deal in Continental Europe. This was a deal that
you have heard of, which was in France. Later, in 2017, we rolled our first next cover
outside of the U.K., this was in the Netherlands. We then moved 2019 into America and
also into Germany, of course. In 2020, we started our first in New Zealand and Australia.
So this is about the history of our longevity book.
Now something which is also interesting on this slide is, of course the bar plot that you
see in the middle. What we show here is the covered annuities that we have. So you have
-- of course you have the members, let's say the policyholders of the pension funds on
the one hand side, then you have an insurance company, we call a cedents for us, on the
other hand side. Then, the longevity reinsurer.
You often are in a situation where you have, I would say a double bidding process, where,
on the one hand, you have our cedents, having negotiation with the pension scheme on
how they want to deal with the pensions that they have in their book. So are they going to
take a pension buy in? Is it going to be a pension buyout? Is it going to be a swap
structure, whatever? So this is happening between the pension fund and the insurance
company, whereas between the insurance company and the reinsurer, of course we're
discussing about terms and condition of a regular premium annuity treaty.

Page 45 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

So what does that mean really? It means that we, as a reinsurer, often get the same deal
via various insurance companies. This means quite a bit of workload, of course when you
analyze these deals because you get various informations from various companies. And
also, you need to take into account that there is another negotiation going on between
the pension scheme and the cedent. So this makes the whole situation complicated, but
that's what we're dealing with every single day.
Now coming to the regular premium annuity treaty, which is really the preferred option, as
I told you before already, what is the idea? The idea is that, and I'm giving you here the
most easy possibility of an RPAT -- that we call it an RPAT, is where you're taking on board
a closed block of annuities. What we would do, as a reinsurer, as Hanover Re, we would
apply our best estimate mortality rates to this block of business and calculate the future
annuity payments that we would have to pay until the last pensioner dies. This is what we
take as a basis. Then, of course we would increase this estimate by a margin. This is what
you see on the right-hand side of this slide with this blue line, which is what we would call
the fixed leg. This is the premium that we get from our cedents every single year. That's
the fixed leg.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now what is the claim that we pay? The claim that we pay is simply what we call the
floating leg. These are the real annuities. So these are the real annuities that the cedent is
paying to the end consumer. This is the difference between fixed leg and floating leg.
Now looking into this graph, at the beginning, you see that there is not too much
happening. I mean the fixed leg, and we would expect that, is slightly higher than the
floating leg. This is more or less our margin because you wouldn't expect any deviations
at the beginning of a longevity deal, the first, say five to eight years. But afterwards, there
are two possibilities which could happen. One could be that people die less than what we
anticipated. This is what you see in year five, six or seven, where the floating leg is
exceeding the fixed leg. If the floating leg exceeds the fixed leg, of course that means
that we, as a reinsurer, we pay the difference. This is mainly a claim for us.
And on the other hand, you could also have the situation where people die faster than
what we anticipated. This is, in the last year, you can see that over there, there, the
floating leg is smaller than the fixed leg and this would then be a profit for ourselves.
The good thing about all this is that we do not take any investment risks here because as I
said before, we're getting the premium year by year, year by year. So no investment risk
involved for ourselves, and that's why we like it.
But why do we like this long-term liability also? Of course the basic of all this, and I told
you, is our pricing is our best estimate. So how do we do the best estimate? How do we
price the business? How do we monitor the business? And the basis for all this is really to
have an excellent data collection and monitoring in place. We are doing that for now, and
you have seen that for 25 years. For probably 15 years or so, we're having these RPATs in
our book. We're collecting and monitoring the data systematically for 15, 20 years to the
back. This is very important.

Page 46 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

And what you see here is the next track of the report that we are building every single
year and analyzing every single year. These are real figures. I think that should be very
interesting for you guys now. And let me maybe focus directly on the very last line, which
is total because that's interesting.
What you see here in the first column is you see the present value of all the claims that
we have taken on board at the moment at which we have written the deals. So we have
written various deals over time. So these are all the deals accumulated and these are all
the present values of claims of all the deals accumulated since we are writing longevities.
You see that the present value of these claims is approximately EUR 32 billion, so
massive.
In the next column, and that's also an interesting thing, you see how much of these claims
we have already paid out. So today you see, and that's the situation in 2020, we paid out
40% of these EUR 32 billion expected claims. It's clear because these deals, they're
already in our portfolio for many, many years. So that's a complete situation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now what is the margin that we realized so far? You see that there, EUR 524 million of
margin. What is the future margin that we expect out of this business? So taking -- take
into account the future -- the runoff of all these deals, where the future margin is
approximately EUR 1.2 billion. The admin expenses, that means the full admin expenses
that we're estimating for the full duration since the first deal 15 years ago until now and
until the last pensioner dies that's probably within 15 years down the road is EUR 260
million. So that we have a total margin, this is the third before last column, of, let's say EUR
1.5 billion.
I think that's a very interesting slide because what you could now do, you can now
calculate an EBIT margin -- an approximative EBIT margin. Let's do that together maybe.
How would we calculate an EBIT margin out of these figures? Well it's easy. We take the
total margin after administration expenses, EBIT is always after admin expenses, and we
divide it by the PV of claims, by the EUR 32 billion, plus the realized margin, plus the future
margin. If you do that for yourself, if you take a calculator, you try and do it, you will see
that the margin -- the EBIT margin that you get out of this business on average is slightly
above 4%. I think that's a very interesting figure also. We can really demonstrate this with
this table.
Another very interesting column is the second before last, which is the actual lower
expected quote. So what does that mean? That means we're analyzing for the whole
book, how many claims did we get in reality and how many claims we estimated at quote
time. So 10 years, 15 years ago, five years ago, maybe last year. So we're making this
analysis in a very detailed way. What we can show you is that over the whole book of
longevity business, the actual or expected a quote is staying at 100%. Of course if you go
into the detailed treaties, and I showed you two examples there, they're all a bit different.
That's very clear.
But the whole book is performing exactly as expected with the margins that you see
there. And now comes the column I like most, I must say which is, I would call it, the euro

Page 47 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

amount of a 1% mortality decrease. Yes. So let me explain this to you. So what we do is we
run a stress, and we say well, what would happen? To our portfolio. If the mortality that we
estimate as a best estimate was over the whole duration, 1% lower than what we think.
What is the impact on our portfolio if this happens? And what you see here is that the
impact is approximately EUR 90 million. So 1% less mortality over the whole duration of
our book means EUR 90 million impact. That means EUR 90 million less margin.
So let's maybe quickly have a look into the total margin or, let's say the future margin that
we are having in our book. It's EUR 1.2 billion. And let's make an easy calculation. I'm sorry,
I'm sure the longevity guys are watching me now and they're all laughing when they see
that. But let's suppose this thing is linear just to simplify it. Then you would say maybe we
could probably, easily support a 10% decrease of our mortality assumptions over the
whole duration of time because 10% decrease, if it was linear, sorry, which mean EUR 900
million reduction of our future margins, and we have EUR 1.2 billion in our future margins.
So we would still be okay. What I want to give you with these figures is just a feeling on
how we monitor the business, and how resilient this -- our longevity business is to
mortality changes, and mortality changes is the most important ingredient on longevity.
That's what we saw before.
Now we have always talked about best estimates. That's why I would like to deepen this a
little bit here on this slide. What means best estimate mortality for our longevity book? If
we concentrate first on the left side of the slide, you see there a graph with four lines.
The first line, which is the top line, which is at 100% horizontal line is showing our best
estimate assumptions for mortality in 2021. This is today. You see there for every single
age, from the age of 30 to the age of 100, you see the best estimate that we have
today. The QX, as we call them. And let's put this at 100%.
Now when you take this as a basis, then let's concentrate on the next line, which is the
cyan blue or the light blue line down there. What does this line show us right now? This
line shows us what the best estimate mortality of today 30-year old male is in the future
compared to the best estimate mortality of everybody today. So let's have a look into
that. So if we take this 30-year-old male, and let's put him, let's say 40 years into the
future. So in 40 years, the guy is 70-year-old. In 40 years, we have 2061. When he gets to
the age of 70, you can see that the mortality that we assume in our best estimate for this
30-year old male today in 40 years down the road, at the age 70, is 60% of the best
estimate mortality of somebody who's 70-year-old today okay?
And if you do the same game again and we go to the age 90, that means we go 60
years ahead, yes? Then you can see that our best estimate assumption for this 30-year
old male when he reaches age of 90 in 2081 is 40% of the best estimate mortality of
somebody who is 90-year-old today. This is the way you
need to read this graph. I wanted to show you this graph because I think it gives you some
feeling on what we mean by best estimates. Now what does that mean? I mean this does
not only mean that the 90-year old person in 60 years down the road, has a lower
probability of dying, but it means also that the probability that somebody reaches the age
of 90, given that this probability of diving in between is much lower than today is also
much higher. So you will end up with much more people at the age of 90, dying with a
Page 48 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

much lower probability, of course. This is what we take into account in our pricing
assumptions. Now you might ask yourself, I'm sure, why does the curve go up after the
age of 90? Well because differences become smaller when you start to become really
older.
I mean running around doing some fitness at the age of 110 has probably less of an
impact than at the age of 50. So that's why we believe that this goes back, and there is an
age where everybody has a probability of dying of one of 100%, and this will also be the
case in the future. So that's the reason why you see these lines going up again at the end.
Let me remain a little bit on this graph. You have two more lines there. You have -- and
these two more lines that you see, which is the dark blue line and the green line are socalled stress tests that we perform when we do the pricing and when we analyze the
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

One of the stresses, and that's a very trivial stress is to say guys, and if our best estimate
was still too high. What if the mortality across the whole best estimate was only 75% of
our best estimate, or was 25% lower than our best estimate. This is what you see in the
green line. The more interesting line is the dark blue line where we say but what happens
if our best estimate is quite good now, and I think it is quite good now. Today I would say - I mean we're not getting it wrong. We know our best estimate today. So we started the
same level. But let's suppose that the best estimate is a little bit better. This little bit is 1%
every single year. So that's the reason why you see that the dark line is getting the further
and further away from the blue -- from the cyan line because, of course differences
become the bigger and bigger. So this is what we call a 1% trends stress. So these are
stresses that we perform regularly on our book in order to see, and what if.
Now when it comes to determining how much economic capital we need to take risk on
board, we do not -- none of these two stresses, but we do a stress that we call the cure
for cancer scenario stress. I, on purpose, didn't show it here because it would be a little
bit more complicated. But in a nutshell, the cure for cancer scenario means, let's suppose
that five years down the road, somebody finds a cure for cancer and that, at that moment
in time, people really start to not to die anymore for cancer. They will die for something
else, but not for cancer. So the way the impact of the stress is similar to the 1% stress test
I'm showing to you here. This is the stress that we perform in order to determine then
how much economic capital we need to hold in order to accept certain risks. Then, of
course we need to have a margin, which allows us to cover the return on capital that we
need to cover.
So that's what I wanted to say to you on the left side of the graph. Why did I show you the
right-hand side of the graph? This is exactly the same, but this time it is for somebody
who is not 30-year old, but somebody who is 60-year-old. What you can see here is that
the impact of the stresses, it's really the impact of the stresses and, in particular, the
impact of the 1% stress, is relatively much smaller than the impact of the 1% stress that
you have for a 30-year-old person. This means that for a 60-year-old person, we need to
hold much less economic capital. So we need a lower margin than for a 30-year-old
person.

Page 49 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

What do I say this? Well this explains why in payment blocks of business where we have
no deferred annuities need less margin than deferred annuities. Now maybe also just to
stay cool, we're not offering different annuities for 30-year-old people, by the way. I just
want to show you the deferred annuities are typically offered for people who are 55 or
60, so we have five or 10 years to go to the pension
But that's the main reason why deferred annuities need a higher-margin than in payment
annuities. Okay. So that was it on longevity, but I would like also to talk a little bit about the
life and health earnings power and directly come back to longevity and show you what the
earnings power of the longevity business has been in the past and what we see into the
future. You see this on this slide. So on the left-hand side of the slide, you see the VNB
and the EBIT of the longevity business over the past seven years, whereas on the righthand side of the slide, you see then the future cash flows that we're expecting from the
VNB business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's first start on the top left part of the slide with the VNB. You see that we have
always been in the past, producing nice VNBs. This is also kind of logical a few months
because it is a long-term business. So we're expecting, as you have seen before, longterm margins getting out of this business. It's not immediate, but it's long term. So that's
why you're getting a nice VNB out of the longevity business. You see this also, in particular,
in 2019 and 2020, we had a lot of new business opportunities and we were writing a lot of
new business opportunities in longevity and this triggered also, of course an increase of
the VNB.
Now what I also have to tell you is that in these figures, we also included the impact of the
financial solutions business in the U.S., which is linked to annuity business, where the
underlying biometric risk is annuity. So this is also included here. So you need to take this
into account. But still, if you look into these figures, very nice VNB for the longevity
business as a whole.
The EBIT also looks very nice, in my view, very positive. You see also that there has been
apparently, especially effect in 2020, I showed you the figure in my very first slide, right?
You remember why I was showing our performance in 2020 compared to what we
expected it to be. You see here also that there was a nice outperformance. The reason
for this outperformance are some financial solutions scenes in the U.S. That's one part.
But there is also another part. What is the other part? Well is the longevity business itself.
On the one hand, it's clear that Covid had a positive impact on the longevity business
because there were a little bit more people dying than what we expected. So this has, of
course a positive impact.
On the other hand, there is also something else, which is happening. We are not showing
the 4% EBIT that I was calculating together with you a few slides before. We're not
showing this 4% EBIT from the day one on. We're not showing the 4% every single year
on the longevity block. What we're doing, we're doing so-called PADs. These are
provisions for adverse deviations. These PADs mean that, at the beginning, we're
probably showing a 2% EBIT margin and then we're releasing the PADs over time. So
every now and then, we're looking into the PADs, and we see what are the PADs that we
can release. The PADs that we can release are mainly PADs for people who have already
Page 50 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

died. We don't need any PADs for people to have died. So that's what we're doing every
now and then. This is also something, which has happened in 2020. So the reason why the
EBIT in 2020 has been higher than expected. So PADs on one side, Covid on the other
side, financial solutions, of course the third reason.
Now looking maybe quickly on the rates on the top right side, which are the cash flows
that we're expecting out of the longevity business. You see long, long, long cash flows,
quite steady cash flows. I'm absolutely convinced that you're all going to say but what's
happening in 2038 -- 2036, sorry, where we expect only EUR 11 million, whereas all the
other years around, we were expecting something like EUR 30 million. Again these cash
flows, are cash flows for the existing in-force business that we have on longevity. These
are, of course not the cash flows that we're getting out of the future business.
So what's happening in 2036? Well this is one of our index deals. The one that I was
mentioning, I think it was a Dutch deal that I was mentioning at the very beginning. This
index deal where we know that in 2036, we're going to pay out EUR 20 million. But during
the 20 years before, we're getting EUR 3 million fees. So the deal is absolutely positive,
but the payout, and that's why you see this cash flow pattern there, is happening in 2036.
So that's why you see this dip there to EUR 11 million. Yes. So that's on the cash flow side.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this brings me maybe to the last slide, which is a slide that I have already been
showing last time. You remember a year ago, we were looking into the whole of the
business group, life and health, and not just longevity this time. These are exactly the
same figures, by the way that we have been showing last year. So you see the past again.
So the normalized EBIT that we have been
able to achieve on the life and health business group over the past until 2019. In 2020, of
course what I would like to propose you is to analyze the difference between the
normalized EBIT that we were expecting at that time for 2020 and what really happens.
So the actuals, this is the difference between the EUR 502 million and the EUR 385 million.
You see this in this nice wonderful chart, where you see, of course we had a negative
impact from Covid. These were, at that time, EUR 261 million. You remember that we had
some positive impacts on minority shareholdings that we have in our book at equity. We
had also some positive impacts. I showed that in my very first slide, you remember when I
showed you the outperformance of our earnings growth drivers, and the total positive
impact of this has been EUR 89 million, which brings us to EUR 385 million EBIT on an
actual basis for 2020. Now what's going on from 2021 onwards to 2024. Well if you
remember well what I was showing a year ago, I was showing exactly the same pattern,
exactly the same figures, but we were expecting to reach EUR 600 million normalized
EBIT by 2023. You certainly remember that. You might say but why is it now taking one
year longer to get to these expected normalized EUR 600 million EBIT that we're showing
here?
And the reason cannot be Covid claims because I'm showing you a normalized EBIT. It's
not an EBIT with any underperformance, or outperformance, or special impacts. So why is
it still one year longer? And The reason why we believe it takes us one year longer are not
claims. The reason is that the new business of our clients has simply, I wouldn't say
stopped -- completely stopped, but it has slowed down dramatically in the whole world.
Page 51 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

These figures that we were showing you at that time, were supposing that we will still
have a very nice new business production, and our cedents would have a nice business
production, this has slowed down over the last year and also this year. This is the reason
why it's going to take us a little bit longer to reach the EUR 600 million on a normalized
basis.
Maybe just one thing. Don't expect us to finish this year with 502. You see the 502, which
are there in 2021. We already know that this year has been negatively impacted by Covid.
In the first half year, we have communicated negative impact of EUR 263 million, if I'm not
mistaken. It's also clear that Covid is not over. I mean people are still dying and I'm
absolutely convinced that you will have tons of questions in the Q&A around Covid, and
we'll try to answer these questions, of course. So don't take the 502 as the best estimate
of EBIT or best estimate EBIT for the life and health business group, of course.

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. This brings me to the key takeaways. I mean again I'm repeating what I said before. If
you look into the longevity business, in the past, one thing we can say is that we have an
outstanding reinsurance expertise on longevity. That's very, very clear. We have even
been voted best-in-class reinsurer, as you can see there by NMG. We have gained over
these 25 years, a very, very granular mortality experience, which is the basis to write
longevity deals. We have not stopped innovating on -- both on the product side, but also
on the systems side, and we have shown a consistently strong performance you have
seen that in the last slide.
The future of longevity for us, what is important? I mean important is that we don't want
to have any surprises. So what we need to do, and what we do already and we're going
to do it even more in the future, is closely monitor this business, closely check what's
happening exactly. This takes, of course time and resources. We try really, and that's what
I showed you with this, the dollar amount, or the euro amount, of 1% deviation, we try
here to have a very strong resilience to these mortality deviations that can happen. And
right now, our portfolio is showing this resilience very, very clearly.
We continue with product innovations, definitely. So that's very important. The further
geographic expansion also is something that's on top of our minds. I mean talking about
geographies, which are interesting. Asia. Asia might come also working about markets
such as Korea, Japan, but maybe also China could be market of the future. We're writing
our first longevity deals into an African country right now. We're writing our first -- probably
the first longevity deal into Latin America. So this geographic expansion will be very, very
important for us. And again data collection, I mean I'm stating the obvious. Now maybe
key takeaways on the business group life and health. You have seen that in the last slide,
we have an increasing underlying profitability on a normalized basis, of course the VNB
volatility. So the value of new business volatility that you might see in the future is mainly
coming from financial solutions, and from longevity. I mean financial conclusions are
contributing a lot to the VNB.
And it's also very bulky. So there are years where you write a lot of deals. There are years
we write less deals. So this has a huge impact on our VNB level and the same is right for
longevity. If you look into the EBIT volatility that we have on the life and health side, I would
say in principle, not too much, but still it will be -- and it can be and will be negatively
Page 52 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

impacted by Covid, of course. And by any future pandemics, that's very clear. There are
some positive impacts that we have seen that will also happen into the future, which are
possible recapture of financial solutions deals. When you recapture a finance solution
deal, you get the future fee that you expected to get over the years, you get it in one
time. So this has a positive impact on your EBIT.
Then, of course and this can be positive or negative. We have also sometimes equity
measurements of companies. That's what happened last year. Remember that I think it
was a Monument Regroup [ph], and this could also happen this year again. So this is
where the volatility might come on the EBIT side of the life and health. With that, I suggest
we move forward and go directly Karl into the Q&A session, I guess. Karl?

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Yes. Well thank you very much Claude for your fascinating presentation. Indeed, we go
into the Q&A. And for that, I also like to welcome Klaus Miller to the stage. Klaus is in
charge for all life and health regions, namely North America, U.K., Ireland and -- as well as
North and Eastern and Central European markets. So that sets up us nicely for the Q&A
session. I already can see a few virtual hands up.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

And the first one is coming from Andrew Ritchie. So Andrew, please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

A couple of questions. Apologies if this is a simplistic question. The mortality curve you
showed for longevity in your pricing assumptions, is that the same in mortality curve for
mortality business, as in the assumed improvement in mortality, which looks pretty
dramatic. So would it be the same for mortality business or different? Secondly, I mean
you invited the question, what's your expectation for Covid mortality impacts as things
stand at the minute for 2022?
And the final question is a cheeky one, but you've put EBIT projections for 2023 and
2024, which we know were going to be wrong because there's going to be a different
IFRS basis. So is it going to be higher or lower under IFRS 17 for the life business?

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Yes. Andrew, many thanks. So let me maybe take the first question. I mean it's very clear
that also, on our standard mortality business, there are mortality improvements that
people are dying less, that's also very clear. We do not have exactly the same
assumptions, but we have similar assumptions in principle.
Now it depends on the markets. There are some markets who do introduce into their
pricing the future mortality improvements. If you introduce these mortality improvements
on the mortality business, your price becomes, of course a little bit cheaper. But that's a
risk that you take.

Page 53 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

There are other markets, and most of the markets I know, and these are not Euromarket,
Klaus, I know, but my markets, we do not take on the mortality business, mortality
improvements into account. So what we say internally is that the trend is our friend on the
mortality business because we price the business with the current best estimate mortality
assumptions.
So on my slide, you remember, the 100% line. We know that people are probably dying
less into the fuel future. This is an additional margin that is the trend, which is a friend that
we're going to use, hopefully, into the future. That's on question number one. The second
one, on Covid, maybe Klaus?

A - Klaus Wilhelm Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Andrew, many thanks. So let me maybe take the first question. I mean it's very clear
that also on our standard mortality business, there are mortality improvements that
people are dying less, that's also very clear. We do not have exactly the same
assumptions, but we have similar assumptions in principle. Now it depends on the
markets. There are some markets who do introduce into their pricing, the future mortality
improvements. If you introduce these mortality improvements on the mortality business,
your price becomes, of course a little bit cheaper, but that's a risk that you take. There are
other markets, and most of the markets, I know, and these are not U markets clouds, I
know, but my markets, we do not take on the mortality business, mortality improvements
into account. So what we say internally is that the trend is our friend on the mortality
business because we price the business with the current best estimate mortality
assumptions. So on I remember, the 100% line.
And we know that people are probably dying less into the future. This is an additional
margin that is -- the trend which is our friend that we're going to use, hopefully, into the
future. That's on question number one. The second one on Covid. Yes. Andrew, obviously
it's difficult to look into the future what will happen in the Fourth Quarter. We have seen
and reported already for the first half year, EUR 263 million, which is basically the same
number as we have seen all last year. And as Claude said already, this will continue into
the Fourth Quarter and the Third Quarter, sorry, and the Fourth Quarter as well. The
numbers are currently put together. But from my perspective, the question is not so much
what will happen. Is it a EUR 50 million or EUR 100 million hit somewhere. The question is
exactly the same as with the P&C colleagues today I guess it was circle who said the times
have never been better, at least for the last 10 years in P&C pricing as they were today.
And for the life side and equivalent statement would be what is the earnings power
Claude referred to for our underlying business. When you just look at the last couple of
years, we are now seeing about 75-ish percent of our normalized EBIT coming from
financial solutions. And about 10% is probably growing to 15% in the meantime now from
longevity. What Claude and I did in the last 10 years, we shifted gradually from being the
normal mortality reinsurer, and they usually call that bread and butter business, and we
were not that happy with not enough butter and very old and hard bread. So we did
started to shift a little bit to financials, not only a little bit. We shifted to financial solutions
and to longevity.

Page 54 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

And if you want to compare it, we are not negative about mortality organic business, in
general. We write that. But most of the profit will come elsewhere. It's a little bit like when
Claude and I go out for dinner at night, we use a fine dining restaurant and, of course we
start with bread and butter. But as a start, we have longevity and then it's financial
solutions. The dessert then usually is some of our strategic cooperations, like Viridium,
like Vitality, like Monument Re, and others. So the dependence on the mortality side will
shrink in the future.
Having said that, you will see Covid claims, no question about that, in the Third Quarter.
I'm really afraid probably also in the Fourth Quarter. You have seen the spike in the U.S. in
August and September in mortality in the population. There are lots of, let's say mitigating
effects on our side. Jean-Jacques referred to the pandemic cover. We have bought
already, in 2013 ours, at that time, not really keen on that because I thought our group risk
management is charging us too much in terms of capital for pandemic risk. They were
right because I didn't like the requirement -- capital requirements. We bought this
pandemic cover and we bought it very cheap. And now this is in the money, and we'll
probably pay out in 2022 as Jean-Jacques indicated. For the real Third Quarter numbers,
you have to wait for a few more weeks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Thank you, Klaus, and then your last question on IFRS. I mean yes, that's a tricky question, I
must say. One thing is clear, IFRS 17 is an accounting system, and it doesn't change
anything on the economics of our business. So the economics are not going to change.
But the concrete impact is something that we're calculating now. Clemens was alluding to
it already. We are now making all our test scenarios, and we will be able to tell you
something later. Right now, but I cannot answer this question, unfortunately.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. Thank you. Andrew, for that question. We continue with Thomas Fossard with
this question.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Carlos, actually, I had some questions for Sven and Jean-Jacques, so I don't know if
this is the time to yes. Please go ahead. All right. Okay. Sorry, I had a couple of questions
related to the previous presentation. The first one, which is a general question regarding
pandemic and climate change. I mean are you seeing any regulatory pressure around the
world that actually, the industry are not factoring well enough this risk and you may face or
the industry may face new regulatory pressure coming on these two sides, actually? And
the second question for Sven as well is, if you could help us to understand what you -what is your exposure to aggregate covers that you may have sold to your clients. Is it a
product that you've been able to sell in the past or not some much, just to be understand
what's your exposure to what you call the side perils?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes. Sure. Thank you, Thomas. I guess you are particularly referring to aggregate covers
on the natural catastrophe side, right? Let me start -- start me with that question.
Page 55 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Historically, our risk appetite for aggregate covers on the natural catastrophe side has
been much more limited compared to the vertical per event towers. So we only have a
very small part of our NatCat business written on an aggregate basis.
That has changed a little bit in the latest two renewal seasons where we took slightly
bigger positions. Once that business was repriced after having had losses for a number of
years. So the reward relationship was such that we did write a little more. Structurally, we
much prefer the event towers and try to avoid the aggregate towers.
On your pandemic question, I mean we see that regulators and politicians are
encouraging the industry on certain lines of business, like pandemic coverage to start
providing that cover again in order to support the economy. But I wouldn't call it significant
pressure at this stage. I am certain that the P&C industry will be prepared to write more
pandemic exposures again. But it's difficult to start creating that product in a still ongoing
pandemic because the risk of you writing a known loss is just too high with Covid-19
situation.
Once Covid is behind us, at least the pandemic side of Covid is behind us, I'm certain that
there will be coverage for pandemic exposure again from the commercial market and
also in private partnerships.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, Thomas. The next question is coming from Vinit Malhotra.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes. So just on the life side. So thanks for the great presentation, Claude and Klaus. So
just the shifting of the EUR 600 million by one year, you mentioned it's linked to your
clients selling lower volume of life insurance covers? And just -- I'm not really first about
one year, EUR 600 million here or there. But what is important to me is what you seeing in
the demand side? So we keep hearing that Covet has enhanced sensibilities around risk
in everybody prefuel. So will there be higher demand for protection? And obviously Yuasa
financial solutions is 85% -- 75% of EBIT. So would that Rub on to financial solutions or
maybe less so should you shift a little bit more towards protection because of this
potential demand? Just any thoughts on this will be very welcome. Yes. Maybe let me -you can take the last solution side afterwards, Klaus. Maybe just on this direct insurance
side. The demand is there, of course.
But the problem is that many insurance companies, they have not been prepared to
capture this demand because they needed to change the way they were distributing their
life business from a standard old-fashioned analog way of distributing into some kind of
digital distribution. This took them some time. So this is where we see this, let's say this
slowing down of new business production very clearly. But you're absolutely right that it is
clear that the consciousness of the end consumer towards life business has increased,
and this might give us, of course a certain push into the future.

Page 56 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

But you also know when I was explaining that probably before already that the new
business on the life and health side is really only just the real new business that you write.
It is not like on the P&C side where you write every single year, I would say the whole
portfolio again and again and again on the life and health side, we're sitting on a big
portfolio, and this is there. The new business is representing quite a small part of the total
cake. So that's why these impacts that you will see, this, I would say increased sales of life
of risk policies on the life and health side will take some time.

A - Klaus Wilhelm Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

On the financial solutions side, we are still growing even this year, but we are not growing
as fast as we anticipated. The reason is linked to Covid in the sense that Covid has
changed some things in the financial markets dramatically. And clients are just -- I wouldn't
say paralyzed, but they just stopped and held back and say okay we wanted to solve a
regulatory problem, but does it make sense to continue with what we have discussed with
Hannover Re so far? Or should we just wait until the capital -- or the financial market settle
a little bit and then maybe get a better price? Whatever the clients are thinking, I can't tell
you, but it stalled a little bit.

Bloomberg Transcript

The really big demand we have seen 18 months ago, it's still there, but the execution
lacked a little bit, not on our side but on the client side. This is why we pushed it back. You
can expect that maybe there is extremely more business in the next two years so that we
still reach the goal. But for the time being, we have just decided to push back the plan -official plan figures a little bit.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Well thank you Vinit. The next question is coming from Henry Heathfield.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Very nice presentation again. Thank you very much. I'm unfortunately going to ask some
questions that highlight my lack of understanding. So sorry to anyone that does already
understand this. In your Slide 8, your present value claims anointed. I wondering if you
could just break down exactly what that is? Is that the difference between your fixed
revenue floating there? And what's the app pot? Have you really use for me? The second
question on the same slide, just moving from future margins on the total margin, the
admin expenses in between the negative EUR 260 million, but we're going from future
margin of EUR 1.2 billion total margin of EUR 1.5 billion. So perhaps I don't understand why
the EAA expenses are bumping up total margin, just probably a complete lack of
understanding from my side. Then finally, just within this kind of longevity reinsurance. I
mean how can you be better than peers there it seems let me kind of understand how
you think be better business e specialty and reinsurance P&C side. But I just imagine in the
data margins. So I just wonder kind of how you can differentiate itself really through versus
a mixes?

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Thank you very much for the question. Maybe on your first topic, we don't have the slide
now. But we all -- we remember the slides with the monitoring -- with the extract of the
Page 57 of 62



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

monitoring and you were referring to the first column, which showed the present value of
claims at quote, which were the EUR 32 billion. What this really represents is that -- let me
take one piece of business. If I take one piece of business on to the book, then what I'm
doing with my best estimate assumptions, we're estimating all the annuities that we're
going to payout for the whole lifetime of this business that we take on to our book until
the last pensioner has died. Then we take the present value. I mean today the present
value is easy to be taken because interest rates are so low. So you can more or less sum
them up. But you take the present value of these best estimates annuities that we're
going to pay from now until the last person dies. The figure, the EUR 32 billion that we
showed was the sum of all the present values of best estimates that we were having over
all the years on this business. So it is really -- this business, which has been written at
various points in time, in various years, and we sum them up. So this is one thing. Then you
-- so I hope I'm answering this question.
The second question was your admin expense question. So the EUR 259 million, I think
we're showing there. These are the admin expenses that we estimate for the whole
duration of treaty. So when you write a new business, of course you need some expenses
to take the business on board for negotiations, et cetera, et cetera, then you need to
monitor, price the business. So these are the admin expenses. The EUR 259 million is the
sum of the total factored in admin expenses for every single deal from the inception -from the day we quoted the deal. So the EUR 259 million in -- all the admin expenses we
already had and all the future admin expenses we need in order to monitor and
administer the business, this is the EUR 259 million. That's why you can take them out of
the total margin that you have. We could have probably -- with hindsight, I must say we
could have also shown you how much admin expenses have we already had and what is
the future and expenses that we would have so that we have something which is similar
to the margin. The margin we split it into past and future margin. The admin expenses, we
took it as a whole. So this is -- I hope I'm clarifying this part here. And now, I'm really sorry,
what was the third question.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Why do we better than peers.

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. Okay. So I would say that the market is definitely very competitive and we try -what we try is to diversify ourselves out of where the market is most competitive. I told
you that at the beginning, or in the U.K. only and what we did, and I showed this to you is
also via new products -- via new systems that we were inventing and innovating every now
and then, we're always a little bit ahead of the game.
Now if a market starts to become too crowded, and this is a little bit -- Klaus, you know it
better than me, the U.K. is a little bit crowded on these longevity deals, then we say guys
come on. We don't need premium volume here. And Jean-Jacques mentioned it already,
we need profits. So that's where we say we slow down and we look into other
possibilities. That's why I was showing you the geographic expansion. I was mentioning
geographic expansion into New Zealand, Australia, into Japan, Korea, into Africa, into
Latin America. So this is the way we're going about it.
Page 58 of 62



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Now in addition, and that's also very important in my view, what clients love about us is to
get this, I will say execution reliability or this execution certainty. They love it, not only with
longevity. They love it with financial solutions. They love it on the P&C side. We heard that.
This is a very, very important factor. So sometimes it's not the price, which is determining.
Sometimes it's really the fact that you know you have a partner who is looking at the
business, who's flexible, and who can also quote quite fast. Because I told you, remember
the various factors that you have when you're quoting a longevity deal, you have various
insurance companies, the pension fund negotiating. So you need to be flexible and fast,
and speed sometimes is an advantage. Speed, combined with very good data, puts us in
an absolute competitive advantage in my view.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

So can I just -- sorry, on the admin expenses, just clarify, is that the cost to you? Or is that
what you charge?

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

No. It is a cost to us -- sorry. So if this was not clear, it is a cost to us.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Okay. The total margin is removing the admin those are costs basically, but you will incur
those?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

We have -- some of these EUR 259 million, we have incurred them from 1995, if you want,
an exaggerating until 2020. And part of these admin expenses are going to be incurred.
We price them in. When we price the business, remember the fixed leg is our best
estimate plus the margin. This margin needs to cover what? It needs to cover admin
expenses. So at the time of pricing, you need to know what your future admin expenses
on the whole block of business are. So you price this in and you need also to have into this
margin, you need to include the cost of capital. I explain you how we calculate the cost of
capital with these stress scenarios, the cure for cancer scenario, both need to be included
when we price the business.
And when we talk about VNB. As you know, VNB is really the future, is the profits of the
deal after admin expenses, after cost of capital. So this is the VNB really what's left over.
I'm not sure I'm responding to your question, but I hope it can.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Thank you. I'm not sure if we have another question at least on my screen, it says Iain
Pearce has raised his virtual hand. Is that still --

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Yes. Just a quick one. Just a quick question on the actual versus expected. I was a bit
surprised that you've got that 100%, given that -- under the impression we've seen fairly

Page 59 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

favorable experience in terms of sort of -- for longevity, right, in terms of higher mortality
recently, particularly in the U.K. So just wondering how that factors into the sort of actual
versus expected that you disclosed there?

FINAL

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Yes. I'm happy to do so. Well let me give it a try, okay? I didn't expect that question. But if
you take Covid, Covid had an impact, of course on our business. But what is the impact of
Covid? It is probably, Klaus, correct me if I'm wrong, a 10% increased mortality, probably.
Let's take it 10% increased mortality. If you then look into our longevity book, the average
age of our book is approximately 75 years. So that's more or less the average age that
we have there. The mortality -- now, I'm looking at Klaus of somebody who is 75 years old,
is probably 2%, yes? Let's make it 2%.
So the additional mortality of a 10% increased mortality is 2% per mil. It is only 2% per mil
that we see as an additional for mortality. It is very, very limited, the impact, if you want, of
the additional -- of the Covid that we will see on the mortality. This is definitely not
something that we can see already now on the actual versus expected analysis that we
ran in 2020. The impact is minor, and you will never see that.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Obviously those sort of longevity tables have been favorable, I guess similar factors
apply?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Claude Jacques Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Yes. Yes.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well thank you for all your profound questions. I think we are closing the Q&A
session now. And also, thank you, Klaus, and Claude for your wide-ranging insights.
In a moment, Jean-Jacques will summarize the day and take a brief look forward. And as
always, we will not providing any new guidance for today and for the year 2022. That will
have to wait until the Q3 conference call on November 4.
But I'd like also, draw your attention to the questioner. Claude already mentioned that
your feedback is very valuable to us, and we're really looking forward for that in a very
detailed manner. Therefore, that is a very important element for us to refine our work
continuously.
On that note, I'd like -- certainly, like to thank you all for -- behalf -- for participating at
today's Investor Day. This is also on behalf of the entire Investor Relations team. It's really
gratifying that so many of you have participated today and have showed such a keen
interest in our presentation. On that note, I'd like to hand over to Jean-Jacques.

Page 60 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

FINAL

Well thank you very much indeed, and thank you to all for participating today. I found the
questions highly relevant, and I hope it was an informative half day. Of course any further
question you might have, you can interact with us in the coming days and weeks, no
doubt.
I won't go to an in-depth summary of the sessions. I think that would be too lengthy at this
stage, but I just want to show one more time, our purpose statement because I think it's
underlying what we're trying to do as a company and the purpose statement is about
entrepreneurial period beyond risk sharing is expressing that idea. The teaming up aspect
is very much about being one team, Hannover Re and well coordinated for the
partnerships with our clients, with new entrants of the business, new partnerships we're
trying to seek. The creation of opportunities underlines the fact that we're very optimistic
about the outlook for Hannover Re. We see many opportunities being in the so-called
bread and butter business, but also in more tailor-made areas of our business. So I think
growth is certainly not the biggest problem. I think the issue is more to manage the cycle,
to manage profitability over the next few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

In my presentation, I try to convey the message that we're well on track on the strategic
initiatives. They are gearing towards supporting future growth. I think their impact will be
felt over time, but it's important that we work very focused -- in a very focused way on
these initiatives to accompany the growth trajectory of Hannover Re.
I also mentioned ESG, which is a very topical theme where we've done a lot of work and
recently issued some statements to signal the path and the support where we want to
have on net zero targets on climate change generally, and we want to be an active player
in that field.
And we mentioned the dividend. Clearly, not a new strategy, but certainly an attempt to
make very explicit what we tried implicitly to do, so focusing on continuity of the dividend
and making sure that the ordinary dividend continues to be steady and grow over time,
clearly subject to capitalization. We are focusing on making sure we can deliver on having
an additional special dividend that remains in the card for this year and the coming years.
This is very much part of our strategy as part of the dividend communication.
Clemens had a deep dive on inflation and asset management. I think on asset
management, you've seen that we're very well diversified that we're very resilient, and
we're happy about our positioning at this stage, an inflation risk, very high on the agenda.
We know that. We're looking into it. I think our pricing approach, our reserving approach
are conservative in taking this into account. Obviously on the asset side, we have the
linkers, EUR 5 billion of inflation linkers, which give us an additional protection for inflation
risk.
P&C, you've seen the growth story. We continue to grow very, very well. We see
opportunities in the traditional and in the nontraditional space. There are -- there is
growing demand. There is momentum in the market with the pricing going in the right
direction from our perspective. end of flight to quality, which is linked to consolidation of
Page 61 of 62



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

panels of reinsurers and for us as a preferred partner for our main clients, but also for the
brokers we see the benefit of these trends. So a very optimistic outlook and a preferred
partner position in the P&C space.
Life and health, deep dive on longevity. I hope it was useful to give us a sense for the
earnings power of this line. We're a leader there. We think we have a history of product
innovation in longevity. One of our goals is, of course to continue to diversify our book of
business. We're very U.K. centric at this stage, but are seeing some good opportunities
outside of the U.K. going forward. You saw -- you've seen the earnings power of the
whole portfolio, the EUR 600 million EBIT with a slight delay but in normalized terms, I
think the earnings power of the life and health business is very convincing. Clearly, we
have a short-term challenge with Covid. But I think going forward, the life and health
business will generate very good earnings for the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that was it. I hope it was an informative half day updating you on our strategy, on our
business and I look forward to remaining in touch. Next milestone for us is the conference
call. It's on the 4th of November, and that's where we will present our Q3 results and
another opportunity to address your questions and feedback. Thank you very much. With
that, I close the Investors Day for Hannover Re.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 62 of 62

