Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Capital Markets Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Kevin Whitaker, CEO
Laura Mason, CEO
Nigel Wilson, CEO
Stuart Davies , CFO
Symon Drake-Brockman, Co-Founder and Managing Partner
Unidentified Company Representative, Unknown
Wes Erlam, Director of Urban Regeneration

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Fahad Changazi, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Larissa Van Deventer, Analyst
Louise Miles , Analyst
Ming Zhu, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, everyone, for attending today. I hope you enjoyed the brief video on specialist
real estate. All four of LGC videos are available on our website, free of charge. I'm looking
forward to and indeed proud to be introducing LGC to the investment community.
As usual, the forward-looking statements apply. While LGC is a large and successful
business already, I'm confident it will become larger and more successful in the future.
We have set some clear objectives for today.
We will remind everyone about our track record, including our financial performance and
provide data that answers some of the key investment issues. LG's competitors we think
of as BlackRock, Blackstone, KKR, Brookfield and Apollo.

Page 1 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

In respect of LGC, we will also demonstrate why it exists, and what it does -- coupled with
the size of our many opportunities. You'll hear from several of our management team,
explaining why returns from this business are sustainable.
One objective is to provide you with data on why LGC may be undervalued by the market.
The consensus valuation for LGC is around GBP 4 billion compared to its book value of
around GBP 9 billion. LNG and LGC, as one of our five divisions can be seen through the
retirement solutions lens with our strong commitment to inclusive capitalism and ESHG,
which includes health. We are a globally trusted brand.
Our business model is unique, combining our collaborative culture with multiple synergies
and outstanding management teams. In addition, we have consistently delivered a 20%
ROE. The 20% ROE is just one of our strong financial metrics. Operating profit growth of
9% per annum, sits alongside EPS growth of 10% and dividend growth of 11% and book
value per share growth of 7%.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, we have a very strong balance sheet. We're also making good progress on
achieving our five year cash capital and dividend ambitions, GBP 8 billion to GBP 9 billion
of cash and capital generation and GBP 5.6 billion to GBP 5.9 billion of dividends. However
we do recognize that there are issues which investors have highlighted, and that they
would like to better understand.
Some comments on the specific questions. Our share price has reacted
disproportionately to exogenous events, which as our 10-year financial performance
record indicates have had limited impact on how we manage the business, or how it has
performed. On credit, since 2007, our default provision has grown from GBP 0.5 billion to
GBP 3.4 billion. That's a 680% increase, with the bond portfolio only increasing by around
480%, hence the coverage has increased.
Also, the percentage of investment-grade credit has also increased from 90% to 98%.
We've also had no defaults for 12.5 years and just GBP 24 million since 2007 despite
various credit events. My colleagues at LNG have simply done a great job. There does
need to be some myth busting around capital use in the PRT business as well. Since
Solvency II was introduced, we've seen our S2 surplus rise by GBP 1.8 billion. Our SCR has
only risen by GBP 1.2 billion despite writing GBP 47 billion of new business, and our
coverage ratio today is 12% higher than in 2016.
We are also very strong believers in the importance of ESG or ESHG. We don't see any
trade-off between doing the right things for the right reasons, delivering the right
outcomes and earning attractive returns. Our 20% plus ROE is compelling evidence for
that.
Now on to Lee LGC. Laura will cover most of the detail, but some headlines first from me.
LGC exists to deliver healthy returns while successfully competing in attractive frontier
markets. We all know how quality alternatives have been growing and expect to grow
further in the future. We have set up LGC in four strategically selected markets: housing,
SME finance, specialist commercial real estate and clean energy.
Page 2 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

We have deep subject matter capabilities in all of these lines of business. LGC has been
on a great journey from 2014 when we started working with Simon at Pemberton. I've
always really enjoyed our frank, honest and respectful conversations. They very much
enjoy a similar relationship with Kevin and Carla, but we also started our journey in 2014.
These two businesses have successfully grown quickly, and you will hear from both of
them about their plans for future growth.
Continued growth in frontier sectors is supported by long-term trends, notably increasing
investments from DB and DC pensions, which bring in additional third-party capital and
provide valuation and realization points for our shareholders. There is a live list of
examples on this slide. LGC is a competitive advantage for LNG. We are confident that we
will deliver strong returns. We have created a first-mover advantage. We are delivering 50
to 200 basis point uplift over the same rated credit for LGR, GBP 25 billion to GBP 30
billion of third-party AUM is our ambition, and we continue to support ESH&G.
I'll now hand over to Laura.

Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Nigel. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Laura Mason, the CEO of Legal &
General Capital. Today marks a welcome return for me in my first capital markets event
back in LGC since I left the business at the end of 2017 to run LGR, our institutional annuity
business. As you will see throughout the presentations today LGC has undergone a
significant transition over that period and is now firmly established as a key pillar in legal in
general.
In November 2020, at our last capital markets event, we set out a vision for the future
growth of LGC. I wanted to talk about those ambitions today as well as to provide greater
clarity on how our asset creation platforms work in practice. LGC is a key part of the Legal
& General business model, investing to create assets for the group. Our business uses
shareholder capital to achieve three clear goals: The first, to deliver attractive financial
returns for our shareholders by creating and investing in real assets.
The second is to self manufacture, matching adjustment eligible assets for LGR's global
annuity business. Our asset sourcing also provides investment opportunities for third party
investors, looking to access private market opportunities in new cutting-edge sectors. And
lastly, we aim to ensure our investments secure lasting value for society.
In 2016, two years into LGC's journey, we held only a small allocation, around GBP 1.1 billion
in alternatives. 2021 shows a very different picture. Alternative NAV is expected to grow to
GBP 3.5 billion by the end of the year and constitute around 40% of LGC's total NAV, up
from 18% in 2016. In the last five years, we have shifted towards alternatives to access
higher returns across a broad range of asset classes and work collaboratively with our
colleagues in LGR and LGIM to establish asset platforms in LGC that create assets to back
annuities and third-party liabilities.

Page 3 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

As our alternatives portfolio has grown and started to mature, the blend of 8% to 10%
returns we can now achieve have driven LGC profit growth. We expect full year 2021
operating profit from alternatives to reach around GBP 340 million, constituting around
75% of total LGC operating profit, up significantly from 2016. We intend to increase our
alternatives allocation towards 60% by the end of 2025 to further capitalize on the higher
returns available.
We expect LGC's capital base to grow modestly over this time frame so that by 2025, we
expect to be managing approximately GBP 5 billion in alternatives. It is worth highlighting
that our portfolio is dynamic. We will continue to realize profits in some of our
investments. In the coming months, we'll be announcing a series of external realizations
that will release growth capital ready for deployment in new ventures.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our historic returns from alternatives have been growing and becoming more consistent
over time as our businesses continue to scale and mature. As such, we expect the 8% to
10% return per annum that we generate currently to increase to 10% to 12% by 2025.
Therefore, we expect to generate total LGC operating profits of around GBP 600 million
to GBP 700 million by 2025, of which around GBP 500 million to GBP 600 million will be
from alternatives.
We're long-term investors of the group's capital. Therefore, the group's six strategic
drivers are key pillars of our investment philosophy. To address the expected shift in aging
demographics, for example, we have invested in our LEG living retirement communities.
Our city regeneration work is a clear example of us investing in the real economy.
Achieving double-digit percent returns on alternatives consistently requires significant
scale.
And over the last eight years, we have built a differentiated investment approach that is
difficult to replicate. We have strong investment teams in LGC with deep sector expertise,
who invest selectively and with conviction. We don't restrict ourselves to traditional
models of fund investing. We have built strong, scalable asset creation platforms in the
sectors we cover and are supporting the growth of these platforms through ongoing
capital investment.
In delivering this growth, our teams can draw on an impressive wider network brought
together by the convening power of LNG. Internally, we can lean on the group's
institutional rigor to build resilient businesses fit for long term. We can access different
funding sources across the group and its client base to help accelerate investment in our
platforms.
We invest across all major asset classes, housing, SME finance, specialist commercial real
estate and teen energy. We provide a range of housing by tenure and type to support
local communities. We invest in SME businesses to stimulate economic growth and
support emerging technologies.
And we provide specialist commercial real estate solutions to support urban regeneration
and to provide the digital infrastructure needed for the 21st century. We invest in clean
Page 4 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

energy to support decarbonization and to provide growth equity for innovative clean
energy solutions. Together, the amount for a comprehensive proposition to support and
transform our local communities.
We'll share further details on our investments in each of these sectors later. You'll also
hear from several of our business leaders, from Kevin Whitaker, CEO of CALA; Simon
Drake Brockman, CEO of Pemberton; and two of our more recent additions to the LTC
team. Wes Erlam, Director of Urban Regeneration; and Pete Mayer, Director of Venture
Capital. They'll share with you updates from their business areas and give some insights
into the way that they think about investing.
As I've highlighted, our model allows us to choose the right asset creation platform to
address each of the opportunities we've identified. We can invest to 100% owned
operating businesses like CALA or affordable homes. We access third-party capital funds
through stakes and boutique asset management GPs like Pemberton and NTR. We
partner with sector experts and strategic investors through joint ventures, such as
branded Sitec and KO.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we can also invest directly in portfolio companies, such as Podo or Kanzer, overseen
by our LGC investment teams. Being able to choose from a range of models allows us to
tailor investment approach to meet the particular challenges of the market we're
investing in. We're experience and picking the right management teams to back and in
selecting the right platform from which to grow and support these businesses. So on to
asset creation for LGR and other long-term investors.
Through its investment through its investments, LGC demonstrates a positive cycle of
asset creation. We invest growth capital through our LGC asset creation platforms to
create investment assets suitable for long-term buy-and-hold investors. On completion,
we are able to realize the LGC created investments to LGR or third-party long-term
investors. We can then redeploy the capital, integrating more of these types of assets.
To bring this to life further, I want to take you through the investment model for one of
our fastest-growing asset creation platforms, affordable homes. We've developed an
innovative and repeatable funding model with LGR to provide affordable housing assets
to support new pension risk transfer business. The business expects to create GBP 1.7
billion of assets for PRT business by 2025 as well as potentially attracting third-party
equity. LGC provides the initial capital to invest in affordable housing developments.
Our wholly owned operating business oversees the development and once completed an
income generating; our PRT business uses the housing income to back long-term
liabilities. The returns are therefore, multiple in nature. LGC typically earns 15% or higher
development returns on equity and benefits from fee generation on the development
and long-term management of the assets. We are then able to recycle the growth capital
for deployment and new opportunities to further support an EPRT business. With the
structuring now play this model can scale rapidly.

Page 5 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

As our -- as our investment platforms continue to scale, they will increasingly generate
assets for the group and for third-party investors. We have identified a significant pipeline
of capital opportunities for LGR to invest in U.K.'s pension money into LGC originated
assets. For example, in partnership with Oxford University, we plan to create GBP 4 billion
of assets that support the university's growth plans, funding new academic facilities and
world-class research centers and providing accommodation city's academic population.
These types of investments will ensure LGC can create assets to support LGI's ambition
of writing GBP 40 billion to GBP 50 billion of U.K. PRT over the next five years. We expect
to attract GBP 25 billion to GBP 30 billion of third-party AUM by 2025, firearm beauty
asset management, driven by Penson. We also expect to scale up our deployment of
strategic co-investment through bespoke deals with like-minded investors.

Bloomberg Transcript

Asset creation, therefore, would generate significant incremental value for the group,
above and beyond the value created in LGC. LGC benefits from 10% to 12% returns on
investments. LGR benefits from yield uplifts on LGC created assets, allowing it to write
higher PRT volumes, and we can generate incremental future fees on third party funds,
which are growing all the time.
On this slide, we have provided a breakdown by business of how we expect third-party
AUM to grow from our full year 2021 estimate of GBP 12 million to GBP 25 million to GBP
30 billion by 2025. We expect our existing platforms to continue to manage the majority
of the third-party AUM by this time, building on their impressive growth to date, but we
also see significant potential upside to create third-party assets in our other businesses.
Whilst these are at an earlier stage of development, they have significant long-term
growth potential, and all of these businesses are expected to grow their AUMs by 2025.
LGC's interest in responsible investing is deep rooted, and we have been investing in ESG
assets since our inception. Our positive environmental impact centers on our clean energy
business, investing across the energy sector. In renewable power generation
infrastructure, in new and more efficient technologies and in innovative businesses looking
to drive positive changes in society's consumption.
We are deploying charging point and heat pump technologies in the buildings we create
to accelerate the transition to a net zero economy. And as I showed you earlier, our social
impact is inherent in the sectors that we invest in, creating affordable housing,
regenerating the U.K. cities by investing in new communities and spaces and investing in
businesses, delivering incremental jobs to the U.K. economy.
Our investments are transforming and reshaping Britain's landscape, bringing jobs and
housing back into cities and improving infrastructure. We're continuing to bring forward
major projects at scale across our U.K. cities. In Oxford, we are supporting the local
community with a pipeline of GBP 4 billion of investment opportunities into new homes,
affordable housing, clean energy and health and life science technologies. In Manchester,
we have already invested GBP 400 million into new homes, life sciences and media and
technology.

Page 6 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Our investments touched nearly every quarter of the U.K., and we are delivering holistic
impact in local communities. There are, of course huge alternative investment
opportunities outside the U.K. Global alternative AUM stands at $9.5 trillion, but
governments around the world recognize that significantly more investment is required to
meet society's challenges.
An estimated $130 trillion is required to address climate change globally. And as we look
to grow, we are looking increasingly at international deployment opportunities. We're
already investing in Europe through Pemberton NTR and are looking to expand in the U.S.
in a number of our sectors through asset creation platforms with like-minded investors.
We'd now like to take you on a deeper dive into the sectors that we cover, explaining our
investment strategies and providing further details on our investment performance to
date as well as the potential growth opportunity in each of our sectors. We plan to break
for Q&A after the housing section before closing for a final round of Q&A at the end of
the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we'll start with housing. LGC has built its housing platform to address many of the
structural issues in the U.K. housing market. For the last 50 years, we have seen chronic
undersupply of U.K. housing with the government now identifying the need for 345,000
homes be built per year. In 2020, only 123,000 new homes were built, the lowest annual
total since 2012. In LGC, we are building a market-leading multi tenure housing platform to
meet these challenges head on.
This is helping us to achieve above-market risk-adjusted returns as a principal balance
sheet investor, generate platform volume, value through fee revenue and produce assets
at scale for our retirement platform as well as attracting third-party capital. All while
making an important societal impact by providing quality homes for all tenures and
demographics.
As a business, we have the access to capital, the expertise and the commitment to
continue to scale up this platform. Our housing business currently stands at a little under
GBP 2 billion of NAV, having grown from just under GBP 400 million in 2016 and is
expected to generate operating profits of around GBP 180 million at year-end, 3x the
level of 2016. Our largest housing business is CALA, our wholly owned build to cell
platform, which represents 30% of LGCs now. CALA's valuation represents the carrying
value of the business at NAV.
We have five other market-leading housing businesses across a range of 10 years and
types, supported by land holdings, as listed on the slide. I'll talk more about these in a
moment, but for now, I'm going to hand over to Kevin Whitaker, CEO of CALA.

Kevin Whitaker

{BIO 17821179 <GO>}

Thank you, Laura. Welcome, everyone. My name is Kevin Whitaker. I'm CEO of CALA
Homes, Legal and General's wholly owned house building business. As a company, we
have significant growth ambitions, and we have seen strong growth since legal in general,
Page 7 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

take a 50% stake in the business in 2030. Having now grown to the U.K.'s 10th largest
house builder by revenue, CALA has been central to LGC's performance in recent years.
In the last eight years, CALA's profit has increased 10x, and we've increased the number
of homes we deliver each year from under 1,000 to nearly 3,000. Continuing this
trajectory of growth, we are targeting the annual delivery of around 4,000 homes by
2025, with turnover increasing to GBP 1.5 billion and profits nearly doubling again to GBP
240 million. The delivery of this strategy has been driven by our experienced
management team, the local regional directors.
Our approach to quality and customer service is highly rated, continually being rated in the
top three house builders in the United Kingdom. Across CALA's regions in England, we
have the capacity to deliver organic growth through additional operational sites in our
regional businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

The organic approach would deliver an additionality of around GBP 365 million of turnover
to the business, some of which is already in play. This will be supported by our existing
teams, continuing to deliver additional outlets in our current areas. In addition, we have
the opportunity to consider suitable acquisitions to further supplement the existing land
bank or enhance the operational area.
With regard to margin and return on capital employed improvements across the
businesses, as it stands, they have been improving but remain behind our listed peer
group. The main focus in terms of return on capital employed is to reshape our largest
sites using the land bank to improve the range of opportunities in LGC, bringing sites
forward on a multi 10-year basis, releasing and recycling cash in a shorter timescale than
originally planned. By 2025, we are forecasting an operating margin of around 16% plus,
with return on capital deployed in excess of 20%.
Our main focus is towards contracting, purchasing and delivering sites at a hurdle rate of
23% gross margin. Our overheads will reduce to 5% of turnover from the current 6%, in
line with the growth plan as the business becomes operationally efficient. Other areas of
improvement are a switch to digital sales and marketing platform, consistent digital
approach towards our construction management, along with a focus on maximizing our
net prices on our sites. These initiatives are all part of our plan and benefit color in the
short term.
As with all legal and general's businesses, sustainability and the road to net zero is a top
priority for us. In line with LGC's wider residential commitments, we are targeting for all
our homes to be operational net zero by 2030, with a further plan to become embodied
carbon net zero from 2040 to 2050.
We remain just one of three householders currently measuring our embody carbon,
emphasizing our commitment to lead the way as we seek to set science-based targets
and align with the UN Paris agreement. An example of our approach is the change to
timber kit construction on all of our sites. This creates a 20% reduction in our embody
carbon as an example.
Page 8 of 37



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Turning to each of the regions. We have a strong management teams in place across
each of our operating areas, with business plans to focus on additional sites, operating
margins and the development of their experienced teams to support the growth. These
specific organic regional opportunities will deliver the growth plans over the next five
years. Examples of this will be a regional business in Northam Counties covering Heartport
and ESX on the map. We currently have 10 operational sites in the area where a solar
competition would have up to 20 to 25 operational sites. This growth can be delivered
within our existing market geographical areas.
In summary, CALAs strong growth ambitions over the next five years with significant
improvements forecast in profits, operating margins, return on capital employed and
turnover. This will lead to the production of many more homes, alongside additional sites
to help tackle U.K.'s chronic undersupply of housing. We will deliver this with the
experienced management team with a proven track record of delivering growth. Our land
bank, we used to create opportunities for CALA and the wider LGC businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same time as recycling and releasing cash to support a wide range of additional
sites to support the growth. Continual focus on the quality of our product and our
customer service, and making the most of the geographical opportunities that exist for
CALA, along with a clear focus on the path to delivering our operational net zero homes
and our targets. The size and range of our land bank supports the delivery of growth in
the CALA business and provides for wider opportunities for other LGC housing
businesses on the sites.
A typical large sight could have four different LNG housing proposals on-site at any one
time. CALA built to sell, Legal & General Homes, communities built to sell, affordable
housing and build to rent. These opportunities are starting to happen with initial sites
being delivered at Kroton and North Horsham. As a mature business with a track record of
delivery, we're actively knowledge sharing with LGC's wider housing platform, providing
opportunities for its scale up and start-up businesses as they enter the early stages of
growth.
These sites provide additional opportunities for the wider LGC long income housing
decisions. As these businesses mature, key strength within LGC will be its ability to
develop the multi tenure place making sites and deliver large-scale master plan
developments. This will help accelerate the overall delivery of housing and increase our
build-out rigs, while creating compelling and enduring communities for all.
Our current master plan at North Osram is an example of this, bringing together CALA
build to sell product, Legal & General Homes Communities built to sell product, along with
LGC, suburban built to rent, affordable and modular housing businesses. North Horsham,
we'll be able to offer a unique, sustainable multi-tender site across its 2,750 homes
master plan. This will also allow us to deliver important infrastructure for the local North
Horsham area, including a new primary school, sports facilities, medical facilities, public
respace and the potential for a new railway station, all delivered by Legal & General.

Page 9 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

I would now like to hand you back to Laura to take you through the rest of the LGC
housing platform.

FINAL

Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Thank you, Kevin. And North Horsham is a great example of our housing businesses
working really well together. The NEPOOL housing in the U.K. is well understood, but this
is not just a shortage of housing, also a question of the suitability of the U.K. housing
stock, the different demographics and how to meet the U.K.'s environmental goals.
Our housing platform, which in addition to CALA, comprises affordable homes, later living
homes, build-to-rent and modular looks to address these challenges. I'm talk a little bit
about these other businesses, which are managed by Simon Century, our MD of Housing;
and Rosie Duked, CEO of on macular housing business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our LNG affordable homes business was established in April 2018 to address a lack of
capacity in the affordable housing sector as traditional providers, such as housing
associations are significantly constrained in their ability to meet the growing demand for
affordable housing. From a standing start just three years ago, we have grown our
pipeline to only 7,000 homes across the country and forecast operating profits of GBP
100 million by 2025.
Testament to our position in the marketplace, the business is now a homes England
backed strategic partner with GBP 120 million of funding provided by government to
support further growth. We're well on track to deliver over 3,000 new affordable homes
each year once the platform is fully scaled. We're accelerating the growth of affordable
homes by accessing funding from LGR and third party financing.
We established our later living provider inspired villages in 2017 to meet the growing
demand for age-appropriate housing. Since its inception, the business has scaled rapidly.
Inspired villages now has over 2,300 homes within its pipeline and a gross development
value of GBP 2.1 billion. As we look to lead the way on the road towards net 0, this
business has also recently broken ground on the U.K.'s first operationally net zero carbon
later living developments, which will create more than 350 energy-efficient homes.
In August this year, we announced a new JV with a NatWest Group pension fund, selling
50% stake in our first 11 sites, the follow-on commitment will help to build a portfolio of up
to 34 sites with 5,100 homes and a gross development value of around GBP 4 billion. This
JV has the potential to create a platform, enabling other pension funds to invest in the
sector. This would allow U.K. pension funds to be deployed at scale to match long-term
liabilities and support great outcomes for later living and U.K. society as a whole.
L&G's urban build-to-rent proposition is a demonstration of the way that LGC and LGIM
work together to create solutions for third parties. The business is scaling quickly into a
diversified portfolio of best-in-class build-to-rent assets across the country with 5,000
homes in operation or development.

Page 10 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Rental properties are developed in a bespoke joint venture, funded by LGC and one of
our strategic partners, PGGM, and then once established assets are sold to the L&G
managed build-to-rent fund. This fund currently stands at around GBP 600 million of AUM.
Our suburban build-to-rent business, which launched in November 2020 and is not
included in these numbers, has similar high-growth plans. We plan to use both LGR
financing as well as third-party capital to scale these businesses further.
So to conclude, we are confident in the current trajectory of our diversified housing
platform. We're on track to meet our ambition to have GBP 2.5 billion of housing NAV by
2025, which will deliver significant enhanced returns. By continuing to bring in group and
third-party capital, we can support asset generation at scale. And as we look to the next
five years, we will continue to innovate across each of our businesses and be both
environmentally and socially impactful. We are helping to address society's housing needs
and are committed to being a leading player in the sector on carbon emissions targets.
Nigel is going to join me on stage now, and we'll take some time for questions on what
we've presented so far.
And for those of you joining by webcast, please send your questions via the platform.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean from Autonomous Research. A couple of questions. In terms of your
growth ambitions, I think you've grown by -- in the first 4.5 years by about EUR 2.3 billion,
and you're looking to grow by GBP 1.6 billion in the next 4.5 years, which I think is a growth
rate of about 9%. You put up a slide there saying alternative assets were going to grow at
10% per annum. So that would imply a lot of market share.
I'm sure that's not how you'd like to portray things, but could you give us a bit of an
explanation behind that and whether you'd be applying some more pressure on Laura to
up that target? Then the second question is, I really understand the incremental future fee
generation, bringing a lot of excess or third-party capital in. Can you start charging them
performance fees and management fees to incrementally your revenues, and how much
of your revenues are you planning to get from third-party fees?

A - Unidentified Company Representative
Yes. I think I'll answer the first question and then talk a little bit about the second one
because I think some of that's going to be revealed when my colleagues get to speak. So
you're right, Andrew, I say but you're right. It doesn't trip easily off the time. That the
numbers we put in are on the measured prudent side, I think of what we could achieve as
a group. I think you've seen in Kevin's presentation that there's a degree of ambition.
But it's -- in one sense, it's not going as fast as it was in the past in terms of the
projections that we're presenting to you today. When you added them all up, we felt as
though that was sufficiently ambitious to keep people like yourselves and our investors
Page 11 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

happy that these are deliverable and realistic across all of the business. If you look at the
underlying math, which you've highlighted very quickly, then I might add, Andrew, we're
hoping to get away with it just for today that they -- we could easily do better than that
because the markets are in our favor.
And when you listen to all of the presentations, that's one of the conclusions that we
hope you arrive Ariat actually these are well grounded, not extravagant in any way or not
all the aggressive forecast for the future. We've captured in the word ambition rather than
forecast. But as you rightfully said, I think I'll be pushing a little bit harder with everyone for
-- across all the different businesses in terms of what we think these businesses are
capable of delivering. But we feel as though we've got to take investors and analysts onsite with us.

Bloomberg Transcript

And if we put down some of the targets that we've already achieved today three or four
years ago, you would have just said, well, actually, those are just ridiculous. They're way
too ambitious. As Kevin said, we've grown CALA's profit 10x. If we said, by the way we're
going to grow at 10x, it would have been very skeptical about it, but that's what we've
managed to deliver. I think if you -- when you listen to the other presentations, you'll get
the same feeling.
On the question of fees. I suggest we cover that after you've heard the presentations on
SME finance. Rest assured that the people who are sitting in the room pretty aligned to
your own thinking. And 10%, who you're going to hear most about from Simon and the
most advanced in terms of the businesses, but they're all following a similar trend. If you
look at the numbers we produce just in our half yearly results, we only had GBP 14 billion
of ambition.
We're at GBP 25 million to GBP 30 million today and that's only a few months later. And -but if you extrapolate that, you'll come up with some ludicrous numbers. But we have
enormous opportunities. The point that we made suddenly in the presentation is we think
that the government will change the rules around DB and DC pensions and encourage
them to invest in absolutely the sort of assets that we're talking about today.
And if that happens, then sort of all bets are off in terms of what we can achieve, given
that we are, by far, the biggest pension provider in the U.K., but it's a natural trend. These
are the assets that society wants, the government wants to see, we're market leaders in
pretty much all of these asset classes. There's been a massive opportunity, we think in
addition to the one that we've articulated today when a DB and DC.
And the fact is, as Laura mentioned, networks, the pension fund came in to co-invest
alongside us with a huge financial commitment, I think but to build out our later life living
business, which is hugely successful in America and Australia and Korea and New Zealand.
What around the world. Massively underserved.
When we knocked on the door, we suddenly realize there's huge potential, and we got
planning much easier than we had expected. So that's why we wanted to bring in one of
the U.K.'s largest, maybe the largest pension provider to co invest. So we can keep those
Page 12 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

assets to develop those assets and really realize the potential for this business
opportunity.

Operator

FINAL

Can you just -- can you keep handing the microphone now.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

We've got sinusitis.

Operator
All right, sinusitis. I'll go quickly, but no chance.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Andrew Baker, Citi. I guess similar but slightly different to Andrew's question. So if I look at
Slide '18, the total NAV growth goes from -- it basically increases like GBP 400 million from
'21 to 2024. Obviously there's mix changes within that. But I guess what's the constraint to
the total NAV growth of LGC? Is it surplus capital the ability of LGR to generate such
capital, the ability to...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Company Representative
I think looking at it through the long lens. I mean we try to produce reasonable projections
around it. Clearly, if we do better, we'll invest more capital because we're actually not
capital constrained really in any way. We didn't want to produce numbers that were so
ambitious that you guys do cover highly skeptical.
We wanted to get you on side that actually, these are all quite well grounded numbers.
They're very realistic. I think as you'll see from the management team today they're all
convinced that they will be able to deliver those numbers or even better, and they're
absolutely capable compared to the market opportunity.
You're right in a sense; we could have put much bigger numbers in there if we wanted to.
But the key thing was what actually, even if we keep the capital constant we can deliver a
fantastic return for our shareholders with amazing momentum behind all of the
subdivisions because you'll all see they've got the same J-curve momentum behind these
businesses.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

No, that's really helpful. I guess just one more point of clarification. The GBP 25 billion to
GBP 30 billion third-party capital, is that L&G share? Or does that include all Peman assets
as well, all?

A - Unidentified Company Representative
Page 13 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Yes.

FINAL

Q - Larissa Van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

Larissa Van Deventer from Barclays. I had a similar question on the fee sharing, but I'll park
that into after the later presentation. Two questions. The first one is on page -- on Slide
29, you show the 25% to 30% that was just mentioned. How do we think about that target
versus the GBP 20 billion target that was there previously?
Then you didn't speak much about modular homes, recognizing that it is fairly new, but it's
also fairly new to the U.K. How do you see demand for that housing sector? And how
should we think about breakeven points considering the capital investments of the factory
in leads?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yes Laura is going to take the first, and I'll take the second.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Yes. So to answer your first question there, the apples to apples numbers. We've just
increased, as Nigel said, we've increased how ambitious we're saying we're doing at the
moment, but they are the same numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

On module, we're very excited the other day the chancellor spent three hours at the
factory, which surprised you three of us just spent in the factory, but was just about
managed to make a hot himself in the journey round. If anybody hasn't seen the videos,
so infused at it. We're getting real takeoff right now with three sites up and running, Selby,
which is very close to the factories in a great position. Bustle, which several of the non
executives went down to see things are there.
And we have a big pipeline now. I mean we're seeing modulars really happening. We want
to get to about 3,000 units, and we're about 1,500, 1,600 units right now going through
the factory. We look as though we have a terrific order book for 2022 and beyond, and
people are recognizing that there's something to be some very positive about precision
build housing where everything day one when you walk in it. We think it has an important
role to play.
Interesting that several of that, the -- our competitors, we listed on the -- those list of
competitors are investing in this. You also got Goldman's investor in a Swedish bonding
organization earlier this week. This is one of the things that's going to happen. It's another
J-curve business that we've got that's generating real momentum.
Clearly, it was hard to get it gone during the pandemic for obvious reasons. So we lost 18
months while that was happening, but it's allowed us to improve the technology, improve
the productivity of the factory. If any of you are so enthusiastic, you want to go and visit it,
we'll be delighted to have you there.
Page 14 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

There's more demand for questions in this section than we. I promise we'll get everyone
else here a reasonable time.

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

FINAL

Alan Devlin from Goldman. Two questions.
One, if you hit your GBP EUR 40 billion to GBP 50 billion PRT target and net GBP 15 billion
to GBP 20 billion of real assets, how much am will come from LGC? How important is the
LGC to the LGR?
Then the second question. Just to clarify. The 2025 target, GBP 600 million to GBP 700
million, does that include the third party fees? I include you assured of the Pamet profit?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'll answer the second one, and then Laura can do the long answer, that would quite the
first one. The second one is yes. That's one.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

I mean Alan; I guess all of the U.K. investments have come from a combination of LGC and
LGIM managed assets. I think one of the LGC assets is becoming an increasingly big
proportion of that. We've talked quite a lot over the years about the urban regeneration
assets, which have given us a real sort of benefit compared to our competitors.
Increasingly, we're now starting to see them from our operating businesses, like the
affordable housing.
Example, we didn't sort of explicitly say this in the presentation, but we'd expect the
same model from the urban regeneration and some of the other asset classes that we're
going to be talking about later. So it’s quite a significant proportion now, but will be
growing. I think the other thing is all investments are not sort of created equal. So actually,
these assets where we do sort of create them ourselves and they're not sort of just the
ones that ever announce at our competitors are competing for. We get a sort of
disproportionately higher benefit from a sort of yield upon.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yes. Self manufacturing is very important. If you looked on this slide there, you can see
things like affordable housing, which are demonstrably just in LGC. But if you looked at the
Sky Project or the Oxford Project or the Cardiff Projects, what we want is everybody to
collaborate. We say this is an LGC product. This is L&G projects. It's just not the way we
operate as a firm. The two teams work very closely together.
And often, there's people from both -- all three parts of the group, LGR, LGC and LGIM
represented on the board of these companies. So it is a truly collaborative statistic
solution. But the self manufacturing component is definitely rising as we're adding the
products. You'll see that very clearly in the next section, where, in particular, talks about
what we're doing. Indeed, Laura talks a bit more about clean energy, further areas where
Page 15 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

we're going to have new asset classes going into the LGR portfolio. Sitting on the wrong
side, Greg. Can somebody give Greg, guys?

FINAL

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Just one question for me, please, is from Shore Capital. Just a big picture question really.
You mentioned at the beginning, some listed peers. I'm just wondering what's your
ambition with LGC down the line? Are you sort of thinking of potentially listing this
business given that the peers have significantly higher valuations.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I think it's a very interesting question. We're still in the very, very early stages as we think
of in respect of LGC. The things within LGC that we'll be listing in Pudong, you're going to
hear about shortly. There's one of the many examples at the portfolio companies that
we've invested in have a truly exciting future. So we’re going to talk much more about the
micro rather than the macro. The macro is LGC is a very important part of the group.
We're really happy to have it as a part of the group. It's very synergistic.

Bloomberg Transcript

So therefore, breaking any one of the bits out is really difficult because of all of the
collaboration and transfer pricing that goes on in a very collaborative way and that would
obviously have to change. What we're trying to do today is just get everyone to sort of
ground is just a reasonable understanding of what's going on in the business, what the
dynamics and what each of the different lines of business of, and where we are in the
maybe in three or four years time.
We'd have a wider discussion of the topic that you raise. But today is really focusing about
the full lines of business we've got, what's the potential of those businesses? And why in
aggregate, they're valuated a much less than book value, when even the book value is
probably a very prudent estimate of what the underlying bits of the business are worth.

Q - Greig Paterson
This is a Greig Paterson, KBW. The two things I was thinking. One is the stock of
alternatives that you have to generate up to 225. You've got -- obviously you got the
LGCs NAV, which is 3.525. You've got alternatives -- sorry, third party payment, which is, I
think 13 up to 25% to 30%. But there's two other big components. I think you've got
ambitions to increase the percentage of alternatives in your current GBP 80 billion order
book, plus the GBP 40 billion to GBP 50 billion also has to conservative.
Those latter two, I wonder if you could just give us a ballpark how much alternatives LGC
will have to generate over the next few years because that swaps the other 2. That's
question one. The second one is I'm wondering, I mean obviously for Solvency II, you sell
bonds once they've been downgraded, so that's the reason why you never have any
defaults.
So the key question to me is rather what has been the rebalancing post downgrade costs
since 2008 because that's a true reflection of the actual default downgrade and default
cost. Maybe another point another day. I know it's a complex calculation.
Page 16 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Why don't I take the second one, and you take the first one.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

So I'll take one -- I'll take the second one first. I mean there's so many may there it's just
not true that we sell bonds when they get downgraded, Greig. It's the best example of
that. We have about 2% BB. So the portfolio is 98% investment grade, and that doesn't
get sold when it's downgraded as it turns out. The biggest example of BB is test scores,
and we held on the test goes all the way through. We were convinced by the
management team. So it's a myth that we actually do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

We ask the people to trade out the bonds at times, but it's very much a buy to maintain
fully or not a high turnover portfolio. So at the end of the day we've upgraded the
investment-grade portion from 90% to 98%, Greig. It's gone upwards over time. That
maybe partially explains why we've had so few defaults over time. So it's left that's
incredibly, I think well Posie that we've just got an investment-grade portfolio. Investment
grid of very, very, very rarely default.
I mean Simon's much more of an expert on that than anybody else in this room by a long
way. You can -- why don't you grill him afterwards about the -- what the real understanding
of the bond market is because I know he and others were very impressed by the fact that
we've had zero of a long period of time. But it's actually -- we've only got a little bit of
universe that sits within the likely to default area. And now a BBB component of our
portfolios tiny as well. Do you want to go on the first question?

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Yes. So I mean there were a few numbers there, Greig. But I think the key thing that
probably to take away is we're trying to increase the alternatives or we are aiming to
increase the alternatives within LGC in terms of our actual NAV there. Some of that will be
through increasing the third parties that we've got, as we said, driven by Pantone. Then
the asset creation platforms that we have that create -- that make up part of that NAV will
be generating the assets for LGR to create the sort of GBP 40 billion to GBP 50 billion of
PRT business.

Q - Greig Paterson
Just wondering another GBP 12 and GBP 30 billion that needs to be regulated?

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Yes. So those will...

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}
Page 17 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

So depends where you treat lifetime mortgages in that. But we -- for the GBP 8 billion to
GBP 10 billion, I'll just use AI for the moment. So I said four is we want to do per annum,
three of which -- one of which is like our mortgages, so let's call that 3, the three across
LGIM and LGC we've got more than that in the hopper. I mean if you just look at that one
slide that Laura put up the GBP 4 billion for obviously a lot of that's going to go into the
portfolio, GBP 1.5 billion for Manchester.
We put down GBP 1.7 billion for all. We didn't put down anything in that to build-to-rent and
build-to-rent is going to be GBP 500 million to GBP 1 billion per annum. We're not short of
opportunities right now, Greig, we're feeling really good about the capability to back the
portfolio. Jeff and I have just been going through their budget reviews. We certainly got
lots in the hopper, and it looks a lot perfect the other part of that is allowing us then to
generate assets for third parties.
It's one of the reasons we didn't do it before. We didn't know a spare. We required every
bit of asset that we generated for ourselves for our own business. Now we've realized we
have tremendous capabilities around this. If you take NTR, do we think there's third-party
money going to flow into NTR, offshore onshore wind and solar wind and the like. I mean
you can answer that yourself, Greig, you know the answer is yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we've got a great distribution vehicle for that, it's called LGIM. So you'll see us do
different things than we've done in the past to generate third-party capital into these
businesses as well. We're now going to move on to the next -- sorry.

Q - Louise Miles

{BIO 20765435 <GO>}

Hi, I'm Louise Miles from Morgan Stanley. Just a really quick follow-up question, actually. So
on Slide 24 and what Greig was talking about as well, when you're originating these
assets, and then you start to have the access from LGR to potentially give to third parties,
how do you actually decide which ones go to LGR and which ones are getting it to third
parties? Because obviously there's some of them are...

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

It's many going to be more trial in many instances. There's a thing of the matching
adjustment and the matching adjustment is...

Q - Louise Miles

{BIO 20765435 <GO>}

The ones that are eligible with data.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yes. I mean we managed to generate -- yes, there's lots of non matching adjustment
assets that will create in certain situations. So. So me of the ones that are matching
adjustment, we might split and give to third parties at the same time because our risk
appetite or whatever for a particular -- something that's one point, GBP 0.5 billion in one
particular asset, we'll say well, actually will take GBP 400 million and our third parties.

Page 18 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

We've only done it once so far, and we made one phone call to get the asset, which tells
you something -- there's huge demand for those assets if we want to do it. But now
we've got the capability to do exactly that. I'm going to pass back and sit down, and we'll
start again.

FINAL

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Great. Thank you for your questions, everyone. I'd like to now turn to our SME finance
businesses. There's huge potential for LGC to grow in the SME finance and venture capital
sectors as banks have withdrawn from SME financing in recent years, alternative asset
managers have stepped in. There are now 200 million SME businesses worldwide, which
need financing to invest and to grow and to create new jobs. SME businesses account for
nine out of 10 of all businesses, half of global GDP and two-thirds of jobs worldwide.
At the same time, the global VC market has grown significantly. The European BT market
alone is now worth over $600 billion, larger than many of the European mid-cap
industries. We're already capitalizing on this macro trend through our investments and the
growth of Pembian in particular demonstrates this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Currently, representing around 17% of LGC's alternative NAV, our SME finance business
has been on a strong growth trajectory since 2016 and now stands at over GBP 0.5 billion
of now, having grown at a 12% CAGR since 2016. Operating profits have grown even
faster at a 40% CAGR to reach around GBP 80 million.
The portfolio is made up of our GP stake in Pemberton as well as LP Holdings in
Pemberton funds and our venture capital investments through our wholly owned manager,
ADV and through our fund of fund portfolio. Pete Mayer, who recently joined us as
Director of BC will talk a little bit more about our businesses in a minute.
But I'll now hand over to Symon Drake -Brockman, who will talk more about its impressive
growth trajectory to date and the potential scale of opportunity from here.

A - Symon Drake-Brockman

{BIO 1845631 <GO>}

Thank you, Laura. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Symon Drake-Brockman, the managing
partner of Pemberton, which is a leading European private credit manager with one of the
largest investment teams and office networks in Europe. In just over six years, our
platform has raised over GBP 12 billion of capital from 147 investors globally. And by the
end of 2021, we expect to have just over GBP 8 billion of lending deployed to around 100
companies, actively working with them to support sustainable growth and expansion in
their sectors.
Through our network of eight European offices, Pemberton has built a market-leading
origination platform, which is able to provide borrowers flexible financing and solutions.
We believe that the ongoing withdrawal of bank financing in Europe continues to create
an exceptional opportunity for direct lenders like Pemberton to provide financing to
leading mid-market companies across Europe as they grow their businesses.

Page 19 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

From here, we expect to have over GBP 20 billion of fee earning AUM in our lending
business by 2025. Pemberton has built this business around five key pillars: firstly, to be
seen as an institutional lending platform across the whole of Europe and not just a credit
fund.
Our partnership with Legal & General has played an important part in achieving this role.
Today we manage capital for circa 35 leading insurance groups and 40 pension plans in
Europe as well as a large number of investors in the United States, Middle East and Asia.
Secondly was to build an office network with people who had run the leading leveraged
finance business in each of their key markets. This has enabled us to build strong
partnerships with corporates, private equity firms, banks and to have a market-leading
and highly successful origination platform.
Thirdly, to use this origination capability to build highly diversified portfolios across sector,
geography and to provide our LLPs with access to leading companies in the key
economies of the U.K. and Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

Fourthly, to have a dual track credit process with an independent Chief Credit Officer,
sector analysts to challenge the investment team to create a highly sophisticated credit
monitoring process. And finally, to provide our LPs with credit risk transparency through
our advanced internal credit rating models to provide clarity about the risk-adjusted
returns. These five pillars have helped us to build a market-leading business today.
As I highlighted, our credit assessment process has been the cornerstone of building the
business. Our dual track credit process with separate papers from our portfolio
management, showing the rationale and relative value of the deal and our credit analyst
papers showing financial projections and market position together provide an in-depth
analysis of each of the businesses we invest in.
We overlaid this with strict monthly monitoring of the financial data from our businesses.
This enables us to monitor any underperformance and to intervene quickly if we feel that
the management team is not performing as we would expect.
This table shows the range of strategies that we manage today. One of the key drivers of
growth has been our ability to provide LPs and borrowers access to funds that are tailored
to the yield expectations and risk profile. We now have three core lending strategies,
which provide financing solutions for BB and single B companies and across the entire
capital structure. This range of financing has led Pemberton consistently being one of the
most active providers of financing to private equity transactions and private corporates
across Europe.
18 months ago, we introduced our working strategy, which provides working capital
facilities and short-term financing. With these four strategies, we see the opportunity to
grow significantly over the next five years as banks continue to restructure their business
activities and shrink from lending.

Page 20 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

From a standing start in mid-2014, we've built one of the largest loan origination platforms
in Europe. This table shows we have consistently been one of the most active originators
lending across opportunities in Europe. We are particularly proud of our market position
across all the key economies in Europe. Clearly, 2020 and 2021 was a challenging time for
borrowers in their business. I'm extremely pleased to say that through our strong credit
underwriting, monitoring and our portfolios have all performed extremely well.
The strength of our portfolio in 2020 meant that we were able to actively support clients
through the past 18 months. As an example, in April last year in the midst of the COVID
correction, we financed the acquisition of Hermes parcel delivery business by Advent. This
transaction was one of the leading deals in the European mid-market in 2020 and was
voted Deal of the Year by private debt investor.
We believe that it's this consistency that has differentiated Pemberton from our peers
Private equity sponsors appreciate best-in-class coverage and execution and is this focus
that has made Pemberton one of the leading financing platforms for many sponsors.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the past 24 months, we reviewed over 1,200 financing opportunities and invested GBP
5.9 billion in highly attractive parts of the market. These include GBP 11.4 billion in food
manufacturing, GBP 825 million in business services, GBP 685 million in healthcare and
pharma, GBP 395 million in e-commerce and GBP 385 in technology and GBP 320 in
financial services. We've seen a record number of opportunities through the first three
quarters of this year. We expect to review 800 to 1,000 deals and by the end of the year,
invest in approximately 50 transactions.
Europe continues to see record levels of M&A activity, particularly in the mid-market, we
have a number of very positive trends and sector consolidation due to aging founders
who are looking to retire and management teams who are looking for private equity
sponsors to provide additional equity financing to drive growth in their businesses.
We believe our local presence in all the key European markets provide us with a strong
competitive advantage in identifying these opportunities early and using our deep
understanding of the local business and regulatory environment to be a preferred
financing partner.
This slide shows a proven track record of growth. You will see that between 2015 and '21,
we have increased the number of LPs from 11 to 147. We have growing committed capital
from GBP 1.1 billion to GBP 12 billion grown deployed capital from GBP 320 million to GBP 8
billion and delivered revenue growth from GBP 9.5 million to GBP 80 million.
By 2025, our plan is to grow direct lending and working capital finance business lines into
GBP 27 billion of committed capital, GBP 20 billion of deployed capital, and revenues of
GBP 190 million per year. We see the European market continuing to develop rapidly. We
believe we're well positioned to take advantage of this growth as we move forward.
In addition to our existing business, this slide shows we have several exciting adjacent
areas that we are exploring for additional growth, which I'd like to share with you today.
Page 21 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

We see considerable opportunity to expand our direct lending and working capital finance
businesses into Asia, the U.S. over the next few years. Both markets provide significant
opportunity in different ways.
We see working capital finance as a global business and have already established an
origination team in the United States and a partnership in Asia. In direct lending, we think
that Asia will grow significantly over the next 10 years as it is currently very similar to
Europe a decade ago. We've also identified fund NAV lending, inventory finance and
equipment leasing as highly attractive potential areas for growth as banks continue to
adapt their business model.
We believe that these strategies will provide us with considerable opportunity to broaden
the Pemberton offering to our LPs and to provide exciting additional growth for the
Pemberton business. When it comes to ESG, Pemberton is a responsible investor with a
proactive and innovative approach for which we have won awards not only doing the right
thing but future-proofing the business as a leader in the direct lending market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Pemberton became a signatory to the United Nations Principle for Responsible Investment
in July 2018. In 2020, we joined the Net Zero managers initiative. Today Pemberton is a
net zero carbon firm. Our rigorous investment approach incorporates negative screening,
an ESG questionnaire, ESG-specific due diligence, ongoing monitoring and a partner-led
ESG committee.
We actively encourage our portfolio companies to implement ESG guidelines and
processes. We've introduced an innovative financial incentive through a ratchet margin in
our loans in order to financially incentivize borrowers to further strengthen their ESG
commitments. We see ourselves as a steward of responsible investment supporting our
borrowers and private equity sponsors and building value through sustainable growth.
ESG is a critical part of the stewardship and responsibility, and we are committed to
furthering the interest of our limited partners and the private debt community in this area.
As a firm, we also have a strong commitment to building social mobility and diversity in
our business through our Pemberton ID, Inclusion and Diversity Council. I hope this gives
you a good understanding of our business, and I would now like to hand you over to Pete
Meyer to continue the presentations. Thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Symon, thank you very much for that overview of Pemberton. Where Pemberton provides
debt financing to businesses venture program support start-ups in the U.K. and Europe
with equity capital to turbo charge growth in the innovation economy. I'm very excited by
the evolving opportunity set in Europe and L&G's strong brand positioning to execute on
it.
And that's why I found it so compelling to join L&G earlier this year before I hand I worked
to Cambridge Associates and institutional investment firm right advise large asset owners
on private markets portfolio construction and manager selection.

Page 22 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

By the end of my time there, I led our EMEA private equity and venture capital team
responsible for originating evaluating and syndicating capital to invest alongside the best
managers in Europe. The European venture market continues to grow quickly, record
fundraising, rising valuations and rapidly scaling start-ups have resulted in 91 companies
reaching unicorn status as of 2021, 3x the amount in 2018.
Total 2021 European deal value is on track to increase almost 12x since 2012. Material exits
and IPOs have generated significant value for investors and resulted in repeat
entrepreneurs securing capital for their best ideas. L&G provides capital of this
opportunity through its fund to funds program and wholly-owned venture firm ADV.
In doing so, we back a traditionally capitally starved market that is quickly creating jobs at
the leading edge of the digital innovation economy. We have hired a dedicated team of
venture investment professionals and are leveraging LNG's brands to access the highest
conviction investment opportunities while also contributing to our goals of inclusive
capitalism. Pursuant to this, it's our ambition to raise their party capital into our venture
capital program and scale it further. Doing so will enable institutions and individuals to gain
exposure to a high-growth asset class that was previously inaccessible to them.

Bloomberg Transcript

L&G is uniquely positioned to do this as it builds off of a strong performance in our
venture fund funds program and ADB. Across both entities, we have nearly GBP 200
million committed to 29 funds, 19 managers, supporting over 300 start-up businesses
across the U.K. and Europe.
On the fund of funds program, in particular, we began making commitments in 2016 and
accelerate that deployment into 2017. Performance has been strong with our program
returning 22% net IRR since inception. These returns are tracking ahead of initial forecasts,
especially since the average fund life is still less than 2.5 years old. We've done this
alongside ADV, our venture capital firm, investing in the U.K. start-up ecosystem that
leverages strong sea stage manager relationships to help generate attractive direct deal
flow.
On ADV, we're excited to announce that just this week, U.S. firm Best Buy has agreed to
acquire current health, an ADP portfolio company that was founded in Scotland to
advance remote patient monitoring and telehealth. In total, this is a pure-play venture
capital portfolio with commitments made to some of the best-known seed and earlystage VC managers in the region. On this slide are some examples of the strong GP
relationships we back with LP Capital and the businesses that they have built. Among this
group, are several companies now valued at greater than $1 billion.
These companies are creating thousands of new jobs and are now category leaders, not
just in the U.K. and in Europe but beyond. With these relationships, our track record, the
experience of our team and L&G's brand, we're well positioned to increase capital
deployment and raise third-party capital alongside L&G's balance sheet, with an ambition
to reach GBP 1 billion of AUM by 2025. Thank you. I'll now hand it back to Laura.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}
Page 23 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Thank you, Pete. As we grow LGC's role as a significant alternative asset contributor and
value created for the wider L&G group. We'll look to replicate our successful model of GP
investing and to leverage opportunities in the fund of fund strategy in order to deliver
exceptional diversified performance and to generate LGC profits. We've shown through
investments like the one in Pemberton that with relatively modest investments, we're able
to accelerate growth for early-stage asset managers, attracting third-party capital and
generate value for shareholders.
We have appetite to access more direct investment opportunities using this model I'm
now going to move on to our specialist commercial real estate sector. Headed up by Red
Elan, who will present with me; and Matteo Colombo, who heads up our digital
infrastructure investing business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Legal & General has been involved in the urban regeneration of towns and cities across
the U.K. for over 20 years, and it's been a key part of our strategy for building back better
and leveling up are now commonly used phases, and it's clear that as we emerge from
COVID, there is a need for both the public and private sectors to play a role in creating
positive economic and social change. Widespread in vessel is needed, not just in
traditional sectors, but increasingly in growth sectors such as data and life sciences.
Taking the growth of data as an example -- the world's data was created in the last two
years. The importance of life sciences research and business that can commercialize this
research has been made particularly clear during COVID. The pandemic has been a
further catalyst to growth in life sciences, a sector which is already critical to the U.K.'s
health, wealth and resilience, employing more than 250,000 people and generating GBP
80 billion of annual revenue. We are supporting this team, in particular, through our Sitech
real estate partnership, which (inaudible) will talk about more in a moment.
These themes are, of course global and therefore have potential to scale beyond the U.K.
and our partnership model can be replicated globally. This part of our portfolio is relatively
capital light from an LGC NAV perspective. We develop assets that on maturity are
invested in by LGR or other long-term investors and capital recycled into new
developments.
Over the last few years, we've created assets worth over GBP 3.6 billion of GDV for longterm investors in places, including Cardo, NewCastle and Manchester. As I mentioned as
well as what we've done over the long term in urban regeneration, we're increasingly
investing in high-growth real estate. The table shows the breakdown of investments at
present -- and we'd expect a higher weighting to these newer sectors over time.
Before handing over to Wes to talk a little bit more about Sitech investment and his
thoughts on what gives LNG a competitive advantage in the wider commercial real estate
arena. A quick overview of our investment in KO. Our care investment develops and
manages data centers across the U.K.
It provides facilities on the London Cambridge Innovation corridor the Genomics research
at the -- Welcome Trust Sanger Center as well as hosting the U.K.'s most powerful
Page 24 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

supercomputer for the GBP 500 billion market cap WIDIA, also known as Cambridge One.
In Video, supercharges Healthcare and life sciences research, including the COVID vaccine
research for AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Oxaanopol and GeisenSt. Thomas's Hospital.
Since we invested in 2019, we've grown the enterprise value of the business by 2.5x, and
we're aiming to increase this by a further 5x by 2025. Seeing the demand and growth
potential for global computing, we want to expand internationally. To that end, we are coinvesting in Ko with HR Morrison, who already own and have successfully grown one of
Australia's leading data center platform, which manages some of the country's largest
compute.
For example, amongst others, the Australian government and for Microsoft. With a great
strong partners and therefore, well placed to scale this business further. We also see
significant opportunity that LGR annuity capital and purpose-built data centers, the large
investment-grade cloud players -- then I'm going to hand over to Wes Erlam, Director of
regeneration.

A - Wes Erlam

{BIO 21666215 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Laura. Good afternoon, everyone. I joined LGC in April this year and have been
involved in U.K.-wide regeneration, investments and development for the last two
decades. I was delighted to have the chance to join L&G and continue the fantastic work
that's already underway.
So on this next slide, I'd like to delve a little deeper into our SciTech investments. SciTech
is the U.K.'s leading provider of life science and technology-focused innovation districts.
The business is a 50-50 JV with Bruntwood and was formed in 2018, which is actually very
early in the establishment of the life science real estate market in the U.K.
SciTech created with an initial portfolio of seven projects across 1.5 million square feet.
Today the company has a GBP 600 million property portfolio across 2.5 million square
feet, and we are now supporting over 17,000 jobs. Business is focused on the growth of
the knowledge economy, helping companies to scale and grow through the SciTech real
estate ecosystem.
It's of the start-up space, which is fully managed right through to bespoke lab solutions in
premium buildings at the forefront of design. SciTech has a footprint in prime locations
across the U.K. with Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds and Cambridge. It's the strength of
the local partnerships that we've created that recently helped us win the Manchester
Innovation District, a 15-year JV with the Universester, where we will deliver a world-class
science and technology district.
This project alone has a value of over GBP 1.5 billion and is the final component in the
regeneration of the Citicorp. SciTech will also be working with LGC and our Oxford JV at
the Begbroke Science Park expansion. This demonstrates how we can leverage our
presence across all of our platforms to create greater value. Over the next five years, the
portfolio will grow to over three million square feet and a value of over GBP 1.4 billion. This
is just the start.
Page 25 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Post pandemic, Life Sciences will be one of the leading opportunities in the real sector.
The SciTech is ideally placed to capitalize on this new wave of investments.
And now let's turn to our generation portfolio. It's here that our inclusive capital is envision
is turned into reality. We are investing in projects which are reviving town and city centers
across the U.K. Working alongside our LGIM colleagues, we are creating thousands of
jobs, providing homes to rent or buy and improving infrastructure. And all of this is done
with an unwavering commitment to sustainability and low-carbon development. We have a
portfolio which funds 18 U.K. locations, including Cardiff, Newcastle, Manchester and our
flagship project in Harrier for Sky.
By working with partners such as Homes England, we are able to leverage skills and
resources across the entire real estate spectrum, delivering lasting a meaningful change
when it's needed most. In addition to our regeneration schemes, we also have a JV with
Oxford University, another brilliant example of how we work in partnership to deliver
exceptional results.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have three projects due to start on site in early 2022 with a combined gross
development value of over GBP 325 million. In addition, there is an identified pipeline of
GBP 4 billion, creating valuable secure income for LGR and best-in-class academic and
residential space for the university.
Now I'd like to turn to our competitive edge and what sets us apart from others. This can
be broken down into the following areas. Firstly, our strategy is built on the principle of
investing for the long term, an approach which is closely aligned with that of our public
and private sector partners.
Secondly, we offer a comprehensive solution to regeneration and by leveraging the
various components of L&G to unlock projects. The latest example of this is Bristol, where
we are bringing together the combined strengths of funding from LGR, LGIM's build-torent fund and LGC's affordable housing businesses.
Finally, and crucially, we have a track record of successful partnership delivery on the
ground. We bring projects to life, and we provide tangible positive benefits for local
communities. It's these three factors that an important source of competitive advantage.
So I'd just like to finish by in some key takeaways in relation to our real estate portfolio.
We've invested best-in-class, high-growth real estate companies in the data and life
sciences sectors. This will enable us to secure enhanced terms as those businesses
mature. Our experience of track record and successful delivery with both public and
private sector partners provides extensive access to off-market opportunities.
And finally, over the coming years, we will continue to create a significant pipeline of ESGfocused assets at scale for LGR and third-party investors.
Thank you. I'll now hand back to Laura to talk through our Clean Energy business.
Page 26 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Wes. And now I'm going to cover our last sector, Clean Energy. The team is led
by our Director of Clean Energy, Jon Brumley, he's here today. John has more than 20
years of clean energy and infrastructure experience and brings a wealth of knowledge to
L&G. There are three key interconnected drivers underlying our clean energy strategy.
Firstly, climate change, biggest challenge of our lifetime, but also a huge opportunity.
Action tackle climate danger requires an estimated $130 trillion of global investment by
2015. As a result, there has been a surge in the development of new technologies and
businesses to respond to the climate crisis. These businesses need early-stage growth
capital to reach commercialization and to scale up in response to changing consumer
demands and government policy.
There is also now increasingly growing demand from institutional investors, including LTR
and our aging clients and other third-party institutions to secure investment opportunities
which meets their ESG and climate targets as well as matching their long-term liabilities.
Our energy transition investments fall into two types: low car and infrastructure assets,
which match long-term liabilities and growth equity in newer technologies that are needed
for a successful energy transition.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you can see, they have different risks and profiles. Infrastructure assets currently
comprises investment in our specialist renewable asset management partner, NTR and
Cornerstone Investments in two MTR renewable energy funds. LGR will grow by launching
new funds and managed accounts for institutional clients.
By 2025, we expect LGR to have scaled further and be creating assets for LGR and for
third parties via LGIM. We're also looking to establish new partnerships similar to the ones
we have with NTR, which can see us, for example, enter new asset classes and
internationalize our clean energy business. Our growth equity investments provide strong
returns to LGC and enable us to gain early stage access to new asset classes and
platforms.
Our growth businesses are directly involved in developing and creating solutions that can
be deployed at scale in the future. For example, electric vehicle charter infrastructure,
network tea pumps and high-efficiency solar generation. The innovations coming out of
these platforms also present opportunities for LGC's other businesses. We're holding
Kensa heat pumps in inspired merger sites and pod points in calcite.
Taken as a percentage of U.K. CO2 emissions, three of the most polluting sectors in the
U.K. energy system are power, heat and transport. All three typically rely on data and
polluting technologies. The use of fossil fuels and power stations, gas boilers and homes
and internal combustion engines, and we expect all three to be obsolete in the next 25
years. As a combination of government intervention and public sentiment will see them
replaced by greener alternatives.
The scale of this energy transition is vast and is not limited to the U.K. It represents
significant investment opportunity. Our investment state have been focusing on
Page 27 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

addressing each of these throughput areas, and we see considerable scope for future
investments along the same energy transition theme. Looking in a bit more detail at two
of our growth equity investments. Pod Point, our investment in electric vehicle charging
infrastructure and Kensa, our ground source heat provider.
Since our initial investment in 2019, Pod Point has increased the number of miles of electric
driving interest provided by more than 4x and the number of public charging sockets by
more than 3x. There is currently a huge shift occurring in the automotive industry, driven
both by societal demand and by regulation. We expect EV demand and puts profits to
continue to grow as we move towards 2030, the year from which sales of new petrol and
diesel powered cars and vans will be banned.
Turning to Kensa, our heat pump manufacturer. The number of Kensa heat pumps
installed and the energy provided by them have both increased by 1.6x since LGC's
acquisition in 2020. We expect demand to continue to increase as we move towards
2025, the year from which gas and oil boilers will be banned in new build homes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Any further policy charges and respect changes, sorry, in respect of existing gas boiler
installations could have a potentially significant positive impact on demand and we're well
positioned to capitalize on this too. Clean Energy is an important investment and LGC is
well placed to benefit from and support L&G's other divisions and the group's wider
network.
We're working with LGR to deploy funds into new clean energy assets as it seeks to
reduce its portfolio exposure to climate financial risks and align to science-based targets.
And as we highlighted a moment ago, we are working with our housing businesses to
help them achieve their goal of creating operationally net zero carbon homes by 2030
and providing opportunities for our clean energy investee companies in the process.
And finally, L&G's are increasingly seeking opportunities to invest in both renewable
infrastructure and technologies. As I end and before I hand over to Nigel to conclude,
here are three key things to take away on Clean Energy. Firstly, Legal & General Capital is
now an experienced energy transition investor capable of delivering strong risk-adjusted
returns in both low carbon infrastructure and growth equity.
Secondly, our strategy is focused on sectors of the energy system where the pace and
scale of decarbonization requires substantial investment. And finally, we're working
alongside partners like to create clean energy opportunities that will allow both LGR and
third-party investors to deploy capital into the energy transition at scale. Nigel over to you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, to all of my colleagues for their presentations, and thank you for your close
attention across. In summary, the strategy for LGC is to grow financial returns from
existing businesses like color, to increase exposure to high-return growth businesses,
several have mentioned today to recycle capital from mature and successful projects to
new growth opportunities and to grow third-party assets and, of course continue to
source assets for our PRT business.
Page 28 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

Financially, LGC to deliver increased operating profit rising to GBP 600 million to GBP 700
million in 2025, a net portfolio return from alternatives of 10% to 12% or even higher and
efficient use of capital. We think this is a compelling story. Now we're happy to take further
questions, including some that Laura has on the iPad and our subject matter experts here
to follow afterwards should you need it.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

We've got one here from Oliver Steel at DB. As Michael said, the government is looking
for pension schemes to invest more in alternatives. What percentage is held currently in
alternatives in LGIM Seb and DC pension funds? And what percentage does the
government have in mind?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

It's a very good question. Certainly, I'm not quite sure what the government is going to
announce and it's going to announce. But clearly, we positioned our portfolio to be able to
put these assets into DB and DC pension schemes. Apart from the IV, inspired villages,
that's the only one that we have a direct investment by DC or DB at the moment across
the portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

How much could that be? In France, social impact investing is 20% of the portfolio. I
suspect the government is going to start with a much, much lower target than that. But
whatever happens, it's good for us because we are the, by far, the largest player in the
pension industry here in the U.K.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

And another one from Oliver. If pension schemes are allowed to invest more in
alternatives, what is the risk that this lowers the available investment returns for both LGC
and LGR?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yes. I think if you just go through Pete's presentation, the size of the opportunity in the
way beyond the capacity of firms like ours to invest in it because there's such a shortage
of scale up capital in the U.K. It's actually quite a setting at one level for us because
there's an enormous amount of entrepreneurs, the brilliant start-ups right across the
country.
I know when I go around any of the universities, whether that's Newcastle or Manchester
or Bristol, Oxford, Cambridge, Sheffield, there's brilliant entrepreneurs in Neles University
is desperate to get more capital to grow very different from MIT, which is where I went to
or Harvard or Stanford in America.
And we have to replicate that model. John Bell was here, and John and I presented
together at (inaudible) on Sunday he would be telling you how much the life science
industry in the U.K. is short of capital right now. That capital is not available right now to
really scale up businesses in the U.K.
Page 29 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

And we've got an interesting experiment right now. We've announced we're going IPO
Point will be really interesting to see whether this is an asset that the U.K. wants to invest
in or whether it's actually international markets that ultimately invest in these types of
assets. As Pete mentioned very briefly, current health which is one of our very successful
businesses have been sold to Americans. We have a lot of people looking at some of our
businesses.
That's why Laura mentioned the realization events, we weren't expecting to happen quite
so fast, but it does because there's brilliant innovation businesses here in the U.K., which
are not fully valued in the U.K. They're fully valued on a global market, and the global
market prices them very differently from U.K. institutions because the U.K. institutions
simply don't have enough capital right now.
And I think if (inaudible) does change the rules, I think that's really positive for us. We're
hoping that his visit to the modular factory was the swing factor in getting more of the line
to realize that great things going on in the U.K., and we'd love to see them happen over
here at scale. So we now open questions to the floor. And again can you just say your
name and the institution you're representing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

It's Steven Haywood from HSBC. Sorry, three questions, but kind of follow-ups really from
previous questions. I think Louis mentioned about the matching adjustment part of the
movement of assets from LGC to your IT business? And how does this change, do you
think with the U.K. Solvency II review? Do you think this sort of shift of assets increases
massively, so you can allow more different types of businesses into your PRT or more
different assets into your PRT business?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'm going to -- I think it's such a good question. I'm going to pass that one to Jeff Davies.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

I mean okay. Second question then was actually I might have missed it, but I'm following
up from Alan's question earlier on the fee part, the third-party fees. Did you actually
mention whether this was included in the GBP 600 million to GBP 700 million target or
not? Then the final question, which -- sorry about my agent in Solvency II, but LGC Capital,
does it come under the Solvency II regime and as it's part of L&G Group. Does it have to?
And what the potential it can do? It doesn't come under something.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Jeff takes the first question, then Laura takes the second and third.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Yes. Okay.

Page 30 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

A - Stuart Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

FINAL

Very quickly.
Yes. I mean in terms of -- in terms of assets that are allowable after the any review of
Solvency II, we've said we're looking to widen the universe of assets. I don't think we're
going to see some huge softening of the rules by the regulator. But if there's that move
away from complete efficacy of cash flows that we keep going on about and that does
mean lots of things we've been talking about here would be available to move into that
portfolio.
And so -- and we would need to do less of the structuring that we do around affordable
and we do around build-to-rent, which is a sing and actually an efficiency in the yield that
we'd be able to offer.
If there's a bigger universe it sort of counters the point Oliver said and to Nigel's point,
there's a lot of assets out there more than we can all invest in. It also would mean we'd
have more available that we'd be able to pass to third-party investors. We're already
doing that in secure income asset fund that we've done through LGIM were pension funds
can do the same thing as we've been doing for our annuity liabilities for some time.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

I don't -- your second one, and Alan is the one. I think the way that we're thinking probably
the best way to think about it is the majority of the third-party assets at the moment are
from Pemberton. Therefore, that is part of our profit projections. But as we sort of said,
there's also a lot more room to do more of that, that is there. On the Solvency II and LGC,
yes, at the moment, LGC is part of the Solvency II under the Solvency II umbrella.
I think probably a couple of points to make. The capital charges on these types of assets
diversify quite nicely away from the annuity business. We probably reached a steady state
in capital use now. So as we realized investments and reinvest the capital sort of won't
really increase from here.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yes. And Pete sandbagging is number as part of a budget negotiation with Jeff and
(inaudible), I think there's plenty of upside to go for.

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

This is Ming from Panmure Gordon. Just two questions, please. First, a quite general
question. What's the biggest challenge are you currently seeing in LGC and what sort of
competition are you actually facing? And my second question is a bit more specific on
Slide 38.
And in the other housing business, your operating profit, that is almost like triple in four
years time and your implied return, that's going from 10% to the 14% to 16%. Could you

Page 31 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

just give a color because that looks quite ambitious if I'm just looking at the numbers?
Could you just give a bit of color in terms of how -- what have you got to achieve that?

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

FINAL

Can you talk a little bit about the first one.

A - Stuart Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Didn't you want…

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

So I mean on the first one, I think in terms of the competition we see, we -- I mean Nigel
mentioned some of the sort of bigger global competitors. I think the real competitive
advantage that we've got that was touched upon in regeneration but probably applies
just as well to others is a different sources of capital and as much as we sometimes think
that (inaudible) is a pain.

Bloomberg Transcript

It also gives a really long sort of lower cost of capital to work with others who want to
have that sort of capital that perhaps some of our bigger global competitors don't have. I
think the other thing, particularly in the U.K.; we've got a model where we are really
integrated in terms of understanding how to work with local authorities, government. I
think Kevin's example of portion where we can actually bring together the different
businesses
Kevin mentioned all the housing businesses, but I've also sort of mentioned how we bring
the clean energy into that is a real differentiator to (inaudible), I don't think there are many
other investors that can bring that type of investment -- those investment capabilities
together. (Inaudible) mentioned also that will be a combination of clean energy housing,
SciTech, everything, probably VC investing.
So those are probably our real sort of competitive advantages. So although we might see
competitors doing one or two of those things, being able to sort of really bring them
together is pretty -- is a real differentiator.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

On the housing question, today just in terms of delta, as we mentioned that the
affordable homes are going to make about GBP 30 million, I think this year and GBP 100
million by 2025, and that's just math just getting bigger, as you can see on the slide. The
rest of the businesses, we're making GBP 20 million to GBP 30 million, and we're putting
down that they're going to make GBP 30 million to GBP 60 million in five years time. So I
would be disappointed if that was the outcome that those went from such small amounts.
I think Symon is nodding in agreement. But that's going to happen.
We should do much better because there's like living, there's urban build to rent, there's
modular homes a suburban build to rent the strategic land. If even one of those delivers,

Page 32 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

we'll manage to hit those numbers. I think I'm very confident that all five of those are in
great shape right now under Symon's leadership. And Symon is over there as you can on...

FINAL

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Domininc from Exane BNP Paribas. So a couple for me, if that's all right. Just in terms of
the synergies, one of the slides, which is very compelling is the slide that shows all the
synergies between the different businesses you have. Some of the things you've
highlighted really pull out the synergy between LGC and the other businesses, in
particular, you're talking about the asset transfers from the specialist commercial real
estate into -- can you just run through some of the other examples of synergies?
I guess there are other MA-eligible assets but presumably there are synergies beyond
that as well? That would be really helpful. One other question and it builds on this point
about the solvency reform.

Bloomberg Transcript

One sort of hint that was dropped in a recent speech was that the PRA was looking at MA
eligibility for early-stage lending rather than just finished assets, which sounds like it's
designed to support LGC, right? The LGR can land LGC at the beginning or at the end.
Does that give you -- does that actually create more opportunity to invest? Or is that just - does that just in you slice the cake differently at different times. Those are my two
questions. I'll take the second one.
Yes. I'll start with the step first you can add. I mean in terms of the synergies, I mean
we've used -- the urban regen one is probably our sort of the one that we've been doing
the longest and I talked about our affordable housing model, which -- yes, at the moment,
we are developing the assets, et cetera, in LGC and then LGR are then sort of buying
them, if you like, on completion.
We also talked about the urban build-to-rent model, which is a similar model in terms of
LGC creating the assets and then that one is LGIM. We are increasingly using that model.
We also are using that model actually now sort of more in Pemberton, where we are able
to create -- sort of use the technology, the structuring technology that we've created to
create a matching adjustment sort of note from Pearson and increasingly looking at how
we do that for some of the newer clean energy technologies.
So I think what we're now able to do, Dom, which started, as you rightly say with the urban
regen is almost to the same sort of synergy model with almost all our investment sectors,
and it's slightly in slightly different ways. That's the exciting bit. That sort of leads on to the
Solvency II question of what…

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yes. I think the -- hopefully, regulation and government policy are going to be aligned in a
number of ways going forward. And had that dream for 10 years and failed four different
cases so far. So we count on it. But that's always been the dream for us that actually we
would be given, as Jeff said, many more asset classes that become usable for DBDC or
PRT.
Page 33 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

And I think we're well on the journey to achieving that we certainly developed the
capability because below all of the people you see here today there's some great teams
who are just doing an amazing job. I don't know (inaudible) have got to see it firsthand
when she visited some of the sites with the teams a couple of weeks ago.
And so I'm very confident that we'll get there, whether we get there very soon or in the
next 18 months, two years, it's over a relatively short time period that we will get this
alignment between government policy, regulation and industry capability and is purpose
built, I think for LGC. So I think we're very fortunate to have invested tenures in getting
there on the hole that one this stuff would happen. I think we are getting there right now.
So there's four more hands up for formal questions, and we're trying to get everyone
finished by 2. If there's anybody else who wants to ask another question publicly and
great hand. If not, we'll handle them afterwards when we're all going to hang around for a
little bit longer.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Andrew Baker from Citi. So two for me. So Capital Market Day last year, you mentioned
three to four climate-related businesses that could add north of GBP 100 million to
operating profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

Is that inclusive of what we've talked about today? Or is that in addition to what we talked
about today
I mean some of them are coming through today. I mean the point is clearly one area that
we're going to be very big in NTR is another area that we're going to be very big. We
have a onto which electric vehicle car leasing business. We have a lot of these businesses
all coming through. We just trying to hang on to the moment and make sure that we can
develop them either ourselves to their full potential or with -- you could DLBC money to
help in the way they're growing like inspire and they just would be the best example of
that?
Great. Then second one, so are you able to actually give us the actual SCR that back
Cboe pre-diversification and after diversification of any chance.
We haven't done that. But I think the point that Laura was making was that actually, the
way we presented it, its solvency capital neutral in effect, we're not actually -- there's no
delta. It might one year might be slightly positive on the are slightly negative, but actually
in aggregate at the moment over the plan. It's not an additional strain on it, which is one
of the great things about it.
So we try to have a comparative static, if you like, for those of you who so that you can
exit easy otherwise you have too many moving parts, and it just becomes a little bit more
difficult. But in the future, it probably will get more difficult. But actually, at the moment,
you should get you in time. This is the same amount of capital.

Page 34 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

Q - Fahad Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

It's Fahad Changazi from Mediobanca. Sorry if I missed the gist of it, but Pemberton for
direct lending, for example, can you explain how you are different to say in NatWest
Group and perhaps also talk about excess liquidity now come?

FINAL

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Signals left and Simon was one of the most senior people in the NatWest as is are there
for a very long period, it was great. I'm sure would give you -- it's a very different, more
nimble, more international, I think focused than previously and with single purpose, a very
focused business.

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the other thing is to say that -- Many of the banks aren't doing at scale, what we're
now doing in Pemberton. So Simon listed the four strategies we've got. I think in times
gone by, as it was they might have done some of those strategies, but they're
increasingly doing less of them. I think Nigel's other point is key in that very deliberately,
we've built up a model where we have got distribution part -- like distribution, they're
more than partners, their employees across Europe who really understand the clients and
what's happening on the ground.
And so the -- in terms of the excess liquidity in the system comes for being cautious, is
that commentary around that? -- is affecting your business at all or Pemberton or -- The
other question was also on Karl. It looks like a strong bounce back in 2021, but I keep
hearing about lots of vacancy is in the construction sector. Are we back to normal in
construction now? Go Kevin but you need a…
Sorry.
Not sure what normal ever was. There's plenty of people employed. The furlough took a
little bit longer to unwind than we thought -- the productivity. So the delivery on site has
not been compromised at all since the summer, which is surprising. The main challenge at
the moment is supply around materials, but actual labor is available. So that’s where we
are.

Q - Larissa Van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

Larissa Van Deventer from Barclays. Just one, you have increased your targets for the
third-party assets. But you haven't increased the GBP 5 billion target for LGC. You're
currently just above 3%, but you have over ZAR 5 billion of liquid invested assets within
LGC. Why not deploy those faster?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

It sound like me Laura is lacking Jeff's laughing. I think we've tried to do this. This is what it
looks like with the same amount of capital about the same amount of assets with plans
that you can add them all up and see and make it pretty transparent. We think -- we know
about plans that they never turn out to be quite the same were and it's really to try and
Page 35 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

FINAL

give you the direct of travel basic economics that slide put up the IRR for most of the lines
of business.
You can look at the -- are on the journey right now by calculating out the average return.
So it’s to give you a better look and feel. Then over time, we'll explain in more detail some
of the slightly more complicated parts of how we grow the businesses. But your insight is
correct. This is the last question; you're going first and last Andrew? Your book ending call
most things be than a bookend.

Q - Larissa Van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

And just one question. If Solvency II rules do change, and there's a wider array of assets,
which can be applied for matching adjustment. I'm assuming you get more bang for your
buck by applying them to PRT than you do to.
If that's right, you have two choices. You can either increase the amount of alternative
assets are higher yields on your back book or you can drive faster growth in your new
business and that can then offer a second alternative, which is you can do it for your own
balance sheet or you can do it from a third party. What's the preferred route?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

That's a very good question. But -- and fortunately, we have some things like BC, which
automatically fit in one camp rather than the other. We've got very good methodology for
a long time on how we deal with urban regeneration and affordable housing, and that
predominantly go into back the PRT business.
In spite living, we were at one point thinking about whether we would put it into the PRT
business because it has lots of the characteristics of that. But we decided actually scaling
it up quicker in partnership with NatWest was the best solution for shareholders. So there
isn't kind of a one size fits all. We have a, I think, a pretty good solution for all of the
different subcomponents. I mean Jeff and I -- is slightly this at the GCC. But it's all…

A - Unidentified Company Representative
(Inaudible).

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yes. It's not has lots of collaboration that we've got. But we had a win or wind. So there
isn't a lose on that. we're just getting the mix is reasonably straightforward for us right
now, whether in 18 months or two years' time, it's more complicated because we've got
an even greater array of assets, but it's not a bad problem to have. Can I just say thank
you to everyone.
We've tried to cover a lot of material. Thank you, to all my colleagues who did a fantastic
job pulling all that together. So definitely allowed Laura and I to look good today. Thank
you for your questions. We hope there's many more questions in the future. Hoping we're

Page 36 of 37



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-10-14

giving you updates on LGC, which are favorable and address some of the questions that
were raised by Larissa and others.

FINAL

I'd like to welcome those of you who are staying here to join us for a drink. It's really nice
to see people is to fit in meetings like this. I'm really looking forward to having more
meetings like this. This is a good space for doing this. Will probably allow more than one
person to come from each firm.
I'm sorry that one or two people couldn't come today. But rest assured in the future,
we're really looking forward to welcoming everybody.

Bloomberg Transcript

So thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 37 of 37

