Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

Y 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Olivier Guigne , Chief Financial Officer
Stephane Dedeyan, Chief Executive Officer, Member of the Executive Committee
Thomas Behar, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Benoit Valleaux
Christina Broker
Michael Huttner
Pablo Mayo Cerqueiro

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Conference Call of CNP Insurances. At our
customers' request, this conference will be recorded. As a reminder, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask
questions. (Operator Instructions)
May I now hand you over to Stephane Dedeyan, who will lead you through this
conference. Please go ahead.

Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Thank you very much, and hello, everybody. We are very happy to present our 2021
results together with Thomas Behar and all the team. I would like to stay -- to say a few
words about our ambition and to show you that we are already moving on with some
highlights. I would like also to give you an outlook through our drivers of accelerated
growth and Thomas will then elaborate on our business performance, our financial
performance and solvency ratio, our asset liability management and also about our
corporate social responsibility, and last but least, dividends.
First, a few words about our ambition. Our ambition aimed at meeting the main
challenges that we face. First challengem, create growth levers in mature European
markets. Second challenge, shift our in-force towards unit-linked and diversify our
business mix towards protection which is less dependent on financial revenues in a low
interest rate environment. And third challenge, become an essential link in the value chain
bringing useful solutions to our partners to face increased customer expectations. To
meet these challenges, we have one great ambition, which is to be the most useful and
Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

unique insurer for each of our stakeholders, clients partners, employees, shareholders,
society and planet.
How are we going to achieve that? By leveraging two pillars. The first pillar is to build an
operating model that adds considerable value to the customer and partner experience.
And the second pillar is to fulfill our corporate mission day after day. I will take the time to
elaborate on those two pillars later in what we think is that being useful and unique.
Thanks to those two pillar, we will be able to achieve dynamic growth and meet the
growth challenge in France and abroad in a full service model. Meaning, combining
Eurofins and unit-linked combining life and non-life insurance to meet the challenge of low
interest rates. And you know what we are proud of is that our main facts and figures for
the year 2021 show that we are already moving on.
To start with 2021 key figures, our main message here is business back to 2019 levels with
premium income and attributable profit recovering. Our premium income is above EUR31
billion which is -- which shows an increase compared to 2020 but also to 2019. Our
attributable profit -- net profit is roughly at EUR1.5 billion and our EBIT is above EUR3
billion, also a significant increase of our APE ratio up 3.4 points at 15.6%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our financial strength is confirmed with our consolidated SCR coverage ratio up 9 points
at 217% and a very high level of financial rating, which you can show -- which you can see
on the slide.
If I move on now to our 2021 highlights, they show how much our basis is strong for our
development ambitions. Beyond our recognized financial strength, I would like to
underline the progress we made in the transformation of technical reserves and
diversification of risks and the progress we made in the development of our international
growth drivers. We are also very proud to be a committed insurer and responsible
investor and to enter a new phase in the formation of a major state-owned financial
group. I will get into details for each of those points now.
First point, the transformation of our savings and pension technical reserves and the
diversification of our risk to meet the low -- the low interest rates level challenge. What
you can see is a strong growth of unit-linked sales with 51.3% unit-linked contribution to
total new money, which is very, very significant for an insurance group of our size and this
is a figure which represents the whole activity of the Group all over it's geographies.
A point which is also very, very significant in our ability to transform our in-force business is
the high volumes of PACTE transfers in France with a total volume of above EUR6 billion
which represents 41% of the total PACTE transfers recorded on the French market and
what is -- what is very, very interesting in this volume is that you have 31% of the transfers
in favor of unit-linked funds with a unit-linked waiting up 14 points. Meaning that this is a
very strong tool to accelerate the shift of our in-force towards unit-linked, which is very
important in the macroeconomic context we have at the moment.
As far as diversification of our risks is concerned, I would like to mention a refreshed
income insurance offer for BPCE. We are very, very proud of this new product, which is -Page 2 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

which is consisting of personalized offer, modular pricing and very, very interesting
customer experience because totally seamless and totally refunded with our partner and
this project has found its market. If you look at the number of new insurance above
200,000 with a very strong acceleration of the sales during the last quarter.
Our top priorities for 2022 will be to maintain the pace of growth in unit-linked sales and
transfers and to continue to evolve the traditional savings business. As we mentioned
during our half-year results, we are creating Fonds de Retraite Professionnelle
Supplementaire, FRPS, which is a possibility offered by the [ph]law to locate the pension
business with very long term -- very long-term guarantees and this is a legal framework,
which is much more appropriate to the type of -- to the type of products. And we will
continue to deploy new unit-linked in private equity and infrastructure to provide
innovation to our partners and clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move on now to the development of our international growth drivers, and I resume
on Italy and Brazil. Of course, the main -- the main point for the Italian market is the
acquisition of the life business of Aviva Italy. As you can see, we are now the fifth largest
life insurer of the country with a 6% market share. And what we think is that our growth
perspectives are very strong, thanks to a very efficient model. The products we have with
Aviva have a very limited capital requirements. Those are innovative products and the
capital can be reinvested in more risky assets to bring some yield among the highest in
the market. So we think the setup is very favorable to a strong development in the next
years.
If we -- if we look now at our activities in Brazil, we have launched in 2021 two start-ups
and one of those two start-ups is already EUR5.7 billion premium income which is quite
significant for a start-up, and we are very confident in our capacity to continue to grow in
Brazil because the penetration rate of insurance in the GDP is really above the mature
markets that we can have in Europe. And also, our partner Caixa Economica Federal has
almost 100 million customer and (inaudible) of the insurance in the client base of Caixa
Economica Federal is above 10%, which means that we have a lot of room for growth in
the next years.
In Italy we will continue to deepen our open module presence and integrate the new
subsidiary. And something we would like also to underline is the fact that in our Santander
partnership, we have launched at the end of 2020 the activities in Portugal, and they will -they will develop in the next years.
Concerning our financial strength, I just want to underline the fact that our S&P rating has
been upgraded. And just recall the high level of our SCR coverage ratio up 9 points at
217%. As a responsible investor, two key points here, climate commitments and
biodiversity commitments. Thomas will elaborate on reducing of the carbon footprint of
our investments but just to mention that we are making continuous effort here, and the
results are in line with our objectives.
And another highlight is the more exciting oil, gas and thermal coal policy in line with the
International Energy Agency is minus 1.5 degree celsius scenario. As far as biodiversity is

Page 3 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

concerned, I recall that we have the first institutional investor to have published the
biodiversity footprints office investment portfolio from May 2021, and our top priorities for
2022 will be to pursue reduction of the investment portfolio's carbon footprint and to
obtain a science based target initiative approval of our trajectory. This is very important for
us to have this scientific approach to make sure that what we commit to is really in line
with the necessity -- the necessary trajectory of the International Energy Agency.
As a committed insurer, we have the highest possible equal pay score, 100%, we are very
proud of that. And 2021 has been a record year for investments in support of the real
economy with EUR2 billion commitments in infrastructure, EUR800 million property and
forestry assets and a strong participation in the insurance industry total commitment in
government-backed stimulus financing for SMEs and mid-cap, helping the economy to
recover after COVID pandemic. Our priorities for 2022 are to act on the commitments
and objectives of our corporate mission, and I will come back later on that.

Bloomberg Transcript

To finish with these -- those highlights, we enter a new phase in the formation of a major
state-owned financial group. As you've seen, there has been no change in our ownership
structure. La Banque Postale now owns roughly 80% of our share and has bought BPCE
shares in December -- in last December. And they have clearly announced they are willing
to jump to 100%. Of course, we don't know the calendar, but the intention is clear.
And what is very interesting to emphasize is that the integration with La Banque Postale is
really a success with new money and unit-linked contribution up 9 percentage points
which means -- which means 29% unit-linked contribution to total new money and a real
shift of our in-force towards unit-linked with EUR1.6 billion unit-linked net new money and
EUR2.8 billion net outflow from traditional savings contracts which, of course, accelerates
the shift of our in-force towards unit-linked. More than half of our PACTE low transfers
were made by La Banque Postale with one in two customers making a top-up payment on
transfer, which is also very good to stimulate new business. And then -- and this success is
not only figures, but also product changes with the switch to a gross guarantee for
traditional euro savings funds and a lot of changes in customer experience with new cap
insurance human-computer interface for an enhanced customer interaction that we will
continue in 2022 simplifying our digital customer experience and integrating La Banque
Postale non-life business in order to accelerate the diversification of our business mix and
to have more risk-driven businesses in our mix to help us face the challenge of low
interest rates.
Before leaving the floor to Thomas, I would like to show -- to show you how much we are
confident in our outlook and we are confident in our outlook, thanks to our two drivers of
accelerated growth. The first driver is to become an essential link in the value chain by
building a very high value-added business model for customers and partners. And the
second driver is to develop our unique qualities by fulfilling our corporate mission, and we
think that those two -- those two drivers will allow us to be useful and unique for our -- for
each of our stakeholders, which will support our growth challenge.
First, I would like to elaborate on the first driver become an issue essential link in the value
chain by building a very high value-added business model for customers and partners.
What we want to do here is to industrialize the operating model to to fit seamlessly into
Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

our partners' customer relationship models and deliver impeccable service. We are
working with a lot of different partners and, for instance, we are working with Boursorama,
which is a direct banker in France and the strategic positioning of Boursorama is to be the
lowest priced bank of the market.
And at the other side of the spectrum, we are working for instance for BPE, which is a
private bank of La Banque Postale, and the customary promise of BPE is to have a very,
very high relationship with the customers and to be able to provide tailor-made solutions.
And if we are the provider of those two partners, of course, you see that we don't work
exactly the same way with each of them because we have to adapt to their own
relationship model.

Bloomberg Transcript

How can we do that? We can do that by combining all partners, the foundation of an
operational excellence which is for all partners and we combine that with offering each
partner of choice on different [ph]bricks that will help us customize the operating model
for each partner. If we look at the foundation of operational excellence, it is a combination
of IT systems, user experience and digital technologies, and also organization and
management, and this is due to the fact that we bring together all those foundations for
all partners that will allow us to be cost efficient. And then on top of that, we offer each
partner a choice. We see different types of bricks that they can choose or not. You'll find
here digital bricks to simplify the customer experience. We have some artificial
intelligence routines or bots or electronic signature possibilities that the partner can
decide to use or not. And this is totally free -- totally up to him to choose to use these
bricks on it.
Second type of bricks, we have building blocks towards customer relationship
management excellence to develop innovative service with high user value. And further,
we have also data and business intelligence possibilities to help partner to grow their
businesses. I mean, benchmarks targeting scores, marketing analysis. Of course, the data
plays a key role here. And combining these foundation of operational excellence and
these different adding value bricks, we have the possibility to adapt to each partner and
this is what we call a very high value-added business model for customers and partners.
The second driver is developing our unique qualities by fulfilling our corporate mission. So
what we did here is create a very strong and very rational framework to make sure that
our corporate mission is not just words but it's really at the core of everything we do. We
have identified six different stakeholder groups, customers, partners, employees,
shareholders, society and planet. And for each of these six stakeholder groups, we take
one strong commitment; and for each of those commitments, we have defined three
main objectives which means 18 objectives and we will monitor quantitative progress in
the way we fulfill these objectives with key performance indicator.
So let me elaborate on that. If you take for instance the stakeholder employees, we have
one strong commitment, which is to support employee development within an
organization that boasts wealth of talent and diversity. And to support this commitment,
we have fixed three objectives, promotes equal opportunities, enhance the skills of our
employees, and foster employee engagement in an environment that enhances individual
and collective wellbeing. And for instance, one of the KPIs we are going to follow to
Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

monitor our progress will be the KPI employee engagement that we will measure through
different surveys. And as you can see, those objectives correspond to some United
Nations Sustainable Development goals that you have on the top of the -- on the top of
the page.
So I won't describe by the book all the different stakeholders but you see here the
mechanics and what I would like to do before leaving the floor to Thomas is just to show
you the different commitments towards user stakeholder groups and also give you some
example of the KPIs we are going to follow to show that we really put our corporate
mission at the core of what we do day after day. So for our customers, our commitment is
to make protection solutions available to everyone regardless of their situation and be
there for our insured when they need us. So one of the main KPIs we are going to follow
here is the customer effort score because what we think is that the accessibility of
insurance is one of the foundations of fulfilling of our commitments. And so we will
measure and follow the customer efforts score in all the transaction they do with us to
make sure that this is easy to enter in relation with us and to make sure that we provide
the maximum accessibility for the insurance services.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move on now to partners, our commitment is to develop effective and innovative
solutions with our partners to drive progress in protection insurance, and we will follow
here a KPI which is the percentage of claims which are combined with the service or
assistance delivery to go beyond financial compensation. We think that insurance is not
only about the financial compensation, it's also about human support.
If we look -- if we move on now to shareholders, this is more classical. We want to
responsibly generate sustainable financial performance and the KPIs here will be financial
and extra financial indicators.
Society, our commitment is to help build a more inclusive and sustainable society with a
place for everyone, and we will follow for instance a KPI, which will be the percentage of
unit-linked with financial or social impact because we think this is very important to
promote responsible savings that aim to have a positive impact on society or the
environment.
And as far as the planet is concerned, we want to combat climate change and protect the
natural world as a committed player in environmental condition, and we will continue to
publish and monitor our KPIs related to reduction of the carbon footprint of our
investments.
So, I'm sorry I have been fast on this part, but I think this is also very important that we
have time to elaborate on our business performance. But I wanted to show how we are
committed in our role of insurer and how we feel confident that by proving that we live on
a day-to-day basis our corporate mission and that we put it at the core of all what we do,
we think that we will be very singular and very useful insurer for all our group of
stakeholders and make a competitive differentiation that will sustain and foster the
development of the company and its impact on the society.

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

And now, I leave the floor to Thomas to elaborate first on business performance and then
balance sheet management and so on.

FINAL

Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Stephane. So I will explain to you the dynamics that we had in 2021.
First, some words about the background information beginning by Europe including
France. We have a very good improvement of the financial market in 2021 in comparison
to 2020. We have now euro factor, which is only negative for the six first years, whereas it
was negative for more than 12 years last year, which brings a lot of improvement in all our
valuations. We also benefit from the highest equity market. We have an improvement of
more than 1,700 points for the PACTE accounts.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other important background information is about the health crisis. We have not
had in 2021 in difference from 2020 an impact on the claims ratio in France for the
policyholder portfolio. Of course, we had less activities especially in Germany for CNP
Santander due to the closure of some branches or some activity for car dealers and -- but
as a role, we have not had a major impact, it's very minor for 2021 for the health crisis in
France. It's very different from Brazil where we suffered from deaths. In the portfolio, we
are ensuring in 2021. Quite noting in 2020 in Brazil, but an impact of EUR120 million in 2021
on the claims that we add on (inaudible) of the risk insurance.
In addition to that in Brazil, we have a negative impact of the exchange rates and a sharp
rise in the selling rate and inflation we are over 9% at the end of 2021. We are now over
10% for the selling rate but the opposite, we can notice in 2022 an improvement of the
exchange rate and we are back as a reverse that we had in 2019 for example.
Let's go now to the KPI of the Group beginning with funds. We got performance by
transformation of saving and pensions premium income and technical reserves. If we
looked at premium income, we can say that we are now back on track with 23% of
improvements of the sales and we are not far from the levels that we had in 2019 with
EUR120 billions of sales. You can see in the numbers line of business that we are quite the
same for personal risk and protection, but we have very, very different evolution for
saving and pension between unit-linked and traditional components.
For unit-linked, you can see that we have improved 43% in comparison to 2020, and 42%
in comparison to 2019. Whereas, our traditional saving and pension, we have a reduction
of 16% when we compare 2021 to 2019. It's an example of all the transformation that we
are doing to shift our product from euro component to unit-linked component and can be
seen is a percentage of the sales in pensions and savings business, we are now 29% of
the total new money in unit-linked. It's an increase of 2.3 points, basis points in link
eligibility at 2.6 points for increase in the sales and 2.3 points increase in the total technical
reserves. It comes mainly from what we have done with La Banque Postale. We had an
increase of nine points of our share of unit-linked in the sales we are doing in pensions
and savings business.

Page 7 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

We have also growth in our Wealth business of EUR7 million and in additional -- in addition
to the sales, we have an increase of the PACTE transfer we have succeeded to do all our
objective, EUR6.3 billion. We improved our target, which was EUR5 billion at the beginning
of the year to EUR6.3 billion in the middle of 2021, and we succeeded to do this target. It
helps, as Stephane explained, to to meet our objective to transform our technical reserve
from euro to now unit-linked component in addition of 14 points of unit-linked when the
contract is transfered from an old one to a new one. You can see also in the net new
money the transformation we have still negative net new money for the Euro component
with EUR5.3 billions of and a positive one for unit-linked EUR2.8 billions of shareholder.
Let's go now to the revenue in France. We have an increase of 11% of the total revenue
coming from EUR2.5 going to EUR2.8 billion. It comes from the three components, savings
and pensions, personal risk and protection and revenue from own-funds portfolio. For the
saving and pension net interest revenue, we benefit from the financial markets, which
makes reduction of reserves that we have on the debt covenant for unit-linked and a
higher unit-linked margin. At the opposite, we were able to increase our reserve for the
guaranteed yields that we still have.

Bloomberg Transcript

For personal risk and protection net interest revenue, we benefit from a strong
improvement in our term creditor insurance margins due to the improvement of our
financial margin and also we have revisited our claims assumptions due to the experience
that we have on the products that were launched six years ago.
For the revenue from own portfolio, of course, we benefit from the increase of the
dividends. We were not able last year to get all our dividends on the equity that we -- that
we have, and we have done higher capital gains, thanks to the good performance of the
equity market.
Let's go now to the cost and to the EBIT. We have an increase of 6.5% of administrative
cost which is higher than previous years, but it's nothing in comparison to the
performance of our total revenue of 11%. So we have now EUR616 millions of cost. Part of
it are exceptional. We have 2.2 impacts of the cost that we avoid -- that we have avoided
last year but also consolidation of IT services entity 1.7 impact, and something which is
more permanent which is increase of the project to go for development during the year
and due to all the IT performance that we have which enables to grow our IT application in
link to what Stephane has said about our project of a better performance to the different
-- an adaptation to the will of our various partners, 2.6 impact.
As a total, in comparison to the revenue and the cost, we have an improvement of our
cost to income ratio of 1.3 points and we are now at 50.6% for our cost to income ratio.
As a total, we have an improvement of the EBIT of 12%. We are not yet at the level of
2019 because in 2019, we have done some exceptional capital gain at the end of the year
with the sale of the headquarters building.
Let's go after France to Europe. We have a strong business momentum in Europe.
Perhaps as an introduction, I must say that we have not yet the fruits of our acquisition,
Aviva, in these numbers as it was done only at the end of the year and global integration

Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

is only beginning at 1 January 2022. So we will get all the impact of the Aviva acquisition in
Italy in 2022. We have only the impact on the full balance sheet of the assets and also
liabilities of the undertakings we have (inaudible). So, excluding Aviva, we have as
premium income an increase of 4.1% going for around EUR5 billion to EUR5.3 billion. It was
a good performance for 2019, 3.5%. We have a growth in premium income for the
personal risk and protections and, of course, the unit-linked savings and pension, you can
see that we have an increase of 19% for unit-linked in comparison to 2019.
At the opposite, we have minus 21% on the traditional savings and pensions components
which is quite the same kind of evolution that we were looking at in France that we have
done also in Europe. On another side, we have a reduction of the net new money, only
875 in 2021. I must say that in 2020, we have an exceptional effect due to the fact that we
had less lapses, people were not moving the contract last year, which is not the case in
2021. And, of course, in Europe, we have a very good unit-linked percentage, let's say, in
the savings and the new money that we are doing. It's 74% of the new money in unitlinked going from 180% in Italy and more than 50% in Luxembourg.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the revenue seen in Europe, we have an increase of 11%, going up to EUR357 millions.
You can see that we have an increase in all our component lines of business, and we can
compare that to the [ph]annual costs whereas the increase of the cost is very controlled
with 9% of evolution. As a result, we have a very good performance of the EBIT, an
increase of 18%, which comes from all subsidiaries, CNP Santander, CNP UniCredit Vita
and the other subsidiaries. We have a very good cost to income ratio 48%, which has
improved by 4.2 points.
After Europe, we have now Latin America with a strong marketing momentum. You can
see that we are still performing a lot in Latin America, especially in pension where you
have an increase of 29% like-for-like for the constant exchange rates to dollar 23.6%. We
are very proud that we are number two for pensions in Brazil for [ph]first semester, and
number six for the risk business. As a total, we are number three in Brazil for insurance.
Our net M&A is only increasing year-after-year, which is very good and we are now as net
new money EUR2.6 billions. I must say that also as Stephane said, we are quite lean in
unit-linked for saving and pension in Brazil 199%. For the revenue, we are only an increase
of 0.7%, so it's very low in comparison to previous years. It's due to the COVID. As I said
previously, we have EUR120 millions impact of the COVID. It was partly offset by some
release of reserve and an offset of course by the evolution of the saving and pensions
net income, which has growth in 2021 in comparison for 2020.
We can go now to administrative cost. In this context, it's only an increase of 1%, which
means that it's very controlled. And an EBIT, which is quite the same as last year.
Let's go now from the different areas to synergies on the value of new business and APE
margin, you can see that after very low points in 2020, we are now back at 15.8% in 2021.
We have EUR449 millions of the new business value. The increase coming from France
where we go from 4% to 10%. We have a value of EUR207 millions. We have also the
same kind of increase in Europe 22.1% in both areas, we have the performance of the

Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

financial markets, which explain part of the increase and in France we also benefit from
the fruits of the evolution to unit-linked that we -- you have seen in France.
In Latin America, we are very happy with the numbers you can see. We have a very good
new business APE margin with 32%. So it's still a very high level and we seeded it not to
see any step in the improvement like-for-like it was new business value. We went from
165 to 170, whereas we have stopped the (inaudible) business with Caixa Economica
Federal after the new agreements and we haven't continued in some some lines of this -the three lines of business that I have already presented. So it's a good performance to
go over as a reduction of the other lines of business that we are doing with Caixa
Economica Federal.
After the new business value, we can go to the financial performance. As you can see
from the EBIT to acceptable stable. Net profits as we went from EUR3 billion to EUR155
millions for the net profits. We have a reduction of the financial costs, so it's minus EUR227
millions impact on the financial performance due to the replacement from all submitted
that to new ones we have less interest costs. As a result, we have financial costs, which is
now only EUR227 million. We have an increase of minority non-controlling continuing twist
due to the fact that we have now only 40% of interest in CVP. Let's go to -- we have also
good evolution of the income tax expense, that's the income tax rate as reduced in
France 125%. And we have some non-recurring items. For the first time, we are -- we have
the impact of the amortization of the intangible assets of the Brazil which was net of
EUR1.1 billion that we paid the Caixa Economica Federal. We have also the effect of the
change in percentage ownership of Caixa Vida e Previdencia EUR43 million. And the
opposite, we have -- we have an impact -- a positive impact of the badwill due to
acquisition of the entity of Aviva in Italy and portfolio Allianz in life in France.
So policies of reserve is EUR14.6 billions which is 6.63% of our technical reserves for
pensions and savings. For the net operating free cash flow, you can see that we have a
good improvement, which is EUR2.6 per share. You have also -- you have on first part
improvement of the MCV operating profit, but also a reduction of the required capital for
the in-force. So we have a higher release of this capital. For the 70 capital ratio 270% only
common free major evolutions. Of course, market changes for 17% due to the
improvement of the interest rate, but also the equity impact of the acquisition of Italian
subsidiary 8% coming from the price we paid on one part and all these are passed from
the solvency capital requirements that we have now fully consolidated. And, of course, on
the positive side, you have the net profit, net of dividend for 5 points.
Let's speak now a little bit about asset and liability management. I will only say that as
previously said, we continue to transform our saving and pensions business to more unitlinked components, an increase of 0.7 for the premium income in 2021 and 1.7 for the
technical reserved.
On page 39, you can see that we have still no -- quite no guaranteed yield, no change
and we will put some light in page 40 on all our investments that we have done in 2020,
2021. You can see that we are still investing a lot in what we consider as being a good
component for an asset and liability management looking in a period of inflation to real
income with infrastructure, EUR2 billions of investments especially in fiber, energy transfer,
Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

water waste management in France and abroad. And also some dedicated asset
management.
For private debt, we have invested EUR3.1 billion especially in real estate debt. Also, we
contributed to the government-backed stimulus bonds to relaunch that was important for
France after the health crisis. Private equity, we are proud that we are one of the 50
biggest investors in the world in private equity with about EUR2 billions invested in private
equity, and we continue for real estate. We have EUR800 million with special increase in
housing in France.
For the investment, you can see on Page 41 that we are not so much investment in bonds
compares region towards us only 67% and our average investment rate is the order of
8%. With increase of the rate, of course, we will have higher investment rate in 2022.
Let's now speak a little bit about corporate social responsibility. Stephane has already said
a lot about that. The first component is about unit-linked as our funds instead responsible
investments. We continue to do all the work with our asset managers to meet all the
requirements of [ph]solar bears and we have now EUR18.96 billions of which are labelled
as in sustainable finance.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the unit-linked that -- of our policyholders. On page 44, you can see the progress that
we have done on the carbon footprint. Our [ph]OTT and corporate bond portfolio and
also for our real estate portfolio. So we are getting better and better years after years.
On Page 45 you have the impact on the green investments to give our contribution to
progress in energy and environmental transition. For green investments, we are so good
in 2023 that we meet in 2021 our target for 2023 which expense that we have now a new
target in 2025 of EUR25 billion.
Next component is our contribution to all AGM. You know that CNP at the difference of
other insurer are still very present for equity and due to our equity portfolio, we are able
to participate to a lot of different General Assembly. And we are committed to anchorage
or the undertakings where we are to organize regular shareholder votes on annual,
monthly strategy is the AGMs and especially for companies that emit high levels of
greenhouses gases. You can see the different criterias that we have to vote, and we will
publish our votes from 2022 and onwards. You have seen in our press release yesterday
that we have a deeper commitment that was adopted by our Board yesterday and which
includes from the investment portfolio. So all regards for the oil and gas policy, for all oil
and gas exploration and production companies, Group has introduced a ban on financing
of any new projects and new direct investment in any companies that are developing new
projects
CNP will, of course, continue to give a favor to all which leads to transition, and we will
continue to support investment in subsidiaries that are dedicated to developing
renewable energies to finance green bonds. On thermal coal policy, we continue what we
had in the past, and we strengthened our policy to increase to ban new investments.

Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

On Page 48, you have as a remainder all some recognized strategy from different
agencies. We are amongst the best in the world in ratings. That's for the ESG policy, and
at the end of this presentation, we have report for the dividend of EUR1 per share. If I
accept 2022, 2020 where we paid in one year or two years, it's our highest dividends that
we will contribute that will be paid on the 29th of April 2022. We will have our General
Meeting on 22 of April. This dividend will be the Page 27 and Page 29 of April, and it's
45.5% as a payout ratio.
So that's for our presentation with Stephane. Stephane and me and all the teams are now
ready to answer your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. Now we will begin our question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
And the first question comes from Benoit Valleaux, Oddo BHF. Please go ahead, your line
is now open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

Yes, hello. Good morning. Thank you for the presentation. I mean, I have few questions
from my side. Maybe the first one and sorry for this, but can you please update us relative
to the calendar tender offer and if not, just let us know if things are evolving broadly in line
with initial expectations. I guess maybe even that question which is maybe ability to asset
and liability management and crediting rates. Can you tell us what is or what was your end
2021 your asset duration gap. I think it has been narrowed over the last two quarters, just
to know exactly where it is.
And regarding level crediting rates, it has been broadly stable on average around 2021
versus 2020 with an increase in inflation rate with an increase in the remuneration rate, for
example, on IR and so on. And the current evolution, I would say, in entire, of course, it's
too early to tell for your clear view on 2022 casing. But nevertheless, I mean, what is your
view? I mean, do you believe that you may start to stabilize if there was PPE this year and
to increase continue it. May you start this year or next year, for example, to use part of the
PPE reserve if needed. I mean, just trying to understand, I mean, your thinking on this
topic. And I have a short question, sorry, which is related to Italy, Allianz and (inaudible)
partnership. So I just would like to know if you can please update us on your potential
negotiation discussion with UniCredit. I mean, do you view all of this.
And last, sorry, my last but short question which is related to your IFRS book value
mentioned in your press release. I understand that you've changed the definition because
when you look at 2020 which was elsewhere in your 2020 press release book value was
at EUR27.5 versus EUR21.2, so roughly 22% drop. Just trying to understand what you -what your current definition of book value. Is it tangible book value? I mean. Okay. Just
trying to understand what is the end of EUR15 billion tangible book value. You mentioned
that your end, which is well below the shareholders' equity reported in your -- in your
annual report. Thank you.
Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Thank you for your very direct question. Sorry, but you know, we cannot say anything
about the calendar of the tender offer. This is not our role. So we won't say anything
about that, and I think you understand. Second, I will answer to the Allianz and the
UniCredit question, and then leave the floor to my colleagues to answer the other
questions, but we are continuing the dialog with UniCredit with the idea to continue to
develop together in the Italian country. And we have a lot of work to do, integrating the
new activities of Aviva which reinforce our partnership with UniCredit because in Aviva,
there was also some businesses with UniCredit. So, the dialog is on and our goal in Italy is
to have an activity with UniCredit and also to have open model activities.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

But for the asset duration gap. So, plus we can say a word with Olivier Guigne about our
asset liability strategy, how we deal. Olivier Guigne is responsible for the investment
direction and part of his job, and so he will explain to you what we are doing for the for
asset duration gap. Meaning, what is the strategy for this points that we have done and so
we try to reduce it last year. Olivier will explain how.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Olivier Guigne

{BIO 18263857 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Thomas. So regarding the duration gap, we still have a gap in terms of
duration. Our assets being shorter than their EBT side and so we maintain this gap during
2021, even if we have reduced it a bit. But the main purpose of this gap is to -- also to
allow the liability to be -- to be managed. And as you may know -- so we try to have more
unit-linked on the liability and we do think that it may becomes a liability shorter over the
time.
So we maintain this gap and we registered during the year, and so we still have a gap
today with the rising rates. Of course, it's a huge advantage to have this position during
this period of increasing rates. So now to register it further accompanying the rising rates
and we will see regarding the liability if we have to close it or not in the future.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Okay. Perhaps, we can move on the question about crediting rates because, I'm sorry, but
I don't have a crystal ball. So it's very difficult to answer your question. But as Olivier said
that our view is that we are now entering in a changing world. We had the world of lower
and lower interest rates and now we think that we are changing and that we are entering
a new phase possibly but you know with a lot of volatility, but possibly we are entering a
new phase with increasing interest rates.
So what we are going to do, of course, is to accompany these crediting rates, these
interest rates increase, and as you know by the past we have put a lot of reserves in our
PPE in order to be able to face this moment when there will be a shift in the interest rate
curve. So we think that we are very well prepared to this. Now telling you the rhythm and
the moment when we will change, the curve of the crediting rate is very too early because
this is only the beginning of the year and we think that there could be some push backs
and so on. So we want to be very, very, very cautious about that. But what you can you
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

note is that we feel very well prepared with all the decisions we've made by the past to
be able to accompany the increase in the interest rates

FINAL

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Benoit, for your last points, according to the IFRS book value post to come a little bit later
to you on that -- on that point. Effectively, you have an evolution, but -- which is linked to
some intangible assets, but I will come back to you to explain the evolution

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator
And the next question comes from Michael Huttner Berenberg. Your line is now open.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Fantastic, thank you so much. And I have three questions. The first one is a very cheeky
one on Cyprus. We've had lots of deals in Greece, and I know Greece is not Cyprus, but
basically market consolidation which indicates that this interest in that part of the world
and I was just wondering whether this could create an opportunity for CNP to maybe
monetize your stake in the Colombian showing you have in Cyprus.
The second question is on the interest rate sensitivity. And I just wondered just on BNN
call the two and you kind of explain that I think really well, but I missed a lot of it. The two
different things, the solvency interest rate sensitivity and then the sensitivity in terms of
actual kind of cash earnings, your free cash flow. And I just wondered if you can talk a little
bit more about the sensitivity of high -- of this free cash flow frequently 0.6 per share to
higher interest rates.
And my last question is on the -- you had this long-term plan of reducing -- of increasing
the weight of unit-linked in your back book in France. I think the figure was 30% by 2030
and also 30% for new business. New business seems to be already at 30%. And I just
wondered with all the progress you've made in 2020 and '21 whether you could say, well,
actually, now we are on track to reach that target maybe in 2028 or something. Thank you.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Thank you, Michael. So concerning Cyprus, we have -- we have a growth
strategy. Our ambition is to face some growth challenges because we think we are in a
mature market in Europe. So, of course, if we have opportunities that makes sense to
develop in Europe, of course, we will look at them. So we don't have any specific
opportunity concerning your Cyprus and Greece at the moment. But, of course, if there is
one, we will look at it and I would say, why not. It depends on value creation, the synergies
we can make and so on.

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

FINAL

Concerning the unit-linked, as you mentioned, we've said that we wanted to be at 30% in
2030. So we are, as you say, we are making good progress. So, of course, we aim at
continuing this progress and this is a long-term strategy for us to increase the unit-linked
level in new money and also in the in-force, but we don't want to give some guidance at
the moment. But what you can retain is that we want to be higher than that because we
are making good progress.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

And what is the figure today.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Sorry.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

What is the equivalent of 30% now?

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, on the new money in France, we are speaking about France, we are roughly at 30%,
a little bit less 29.9%, I think. And concerning the in-force, we've made good progress, but
we have room before reaching this 30% ratio in the in-force. At the moment, we are
halfway at 17%, 16%.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

16%, okay. Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Michael, on your question about sensitivity of interest rate to the free cash flow, I think
that content we do our actual chief officer is the best person to answer your question.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

A - Olivier Guigne

{BIO 18263857 <GO>}

The exact impact, in fact, on free cash flow a bit. We disclosed some sensitivity
concerning the in-force value and the in-force value decreased by EUR2.7 billion when we
decreased the interest rate curve. And so the in-force, value is in fact an element of value
inside the free cash flow. So it's the in-force value increased the free cash flow increased
too. So you will have the key indicators on that and you have also the sensitivity of Caixa
inside the presentation by giving you some trends concerning the impact.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Okay. Perhaps you could -- could you repeat your last question about the targets that you
are asking for?

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

FINAL

No, no, that was it. You have actually answered all my questions. Sorry.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Perfect.

Operator
And the next question comes from Christina [ph]Broker, Berenberg. Please go ahead,
your line is now open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Christina Broker
Yes, hello. Thank you so much for sharing the results with us and I would just have one
question. Could I ask about the net operating free cash flow of EUR2.6 per share, which I
know that is well above the EUR1.94 of 2020 and EUR1.97 of 2019. I would like to ask, what
was the main driver for this strong growth and what is the outlook according to you going
forward? Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Okay. I can continue. So concerning the operating free cash flow. In fact, you have two
impacts. The first impact is the increase of the result has helped to increase the free cash
flow. But on the other hand, we have the transformation effect but increase the really is
rate and because at the beginning, we have a higher capital reprise. If you apply on higher
rates on higher amount you have a strong impact and it was -- we have seen on the
operational free cash flow.

Q - Christina Broker
Right. Thank you so much.

Operator
And the next question comes from Pablo Mayo Cerqueiro Mergermarket. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

Q - Pablo Mayo Cerqueiro

FINAL

Hi, thank you so much for taking my questions. So just three quick questions from me. I
mean, I note the comment you made that it's not your role to update us on the -- on the
public offer, but I would just like to note that it is a friendly takeover. So I think asking about
the offer is probably fair. I will avoid asking about the timeline since you cannot comment
on it, but just a few questions that I was hoping you could clarify.
In terms of -- so there -- alongside the public takeover offer, there is an agreement
between your majority shareholder, La Banque Postale and BPCE, about two asset
management transactions. I just wanted to confirm whether the launch of the public offer
for CNP Assurance is conditional on those asset management transactions taking place or
these are completely separate things that have nothing to do with each other. Also, I
don't know if you can give us any color in terms of the regulatory approvals competition
and financial regulatory approvals on that front.
And then finally, I was -- maybe I missed something and I apologize if the question is a bit
stupid, but I was surprised that you're proposing dividend because I recall that the offer is
cum dividend. So does it mean that the offer price is going to be reduced by the dividend
that you're proposing? And can you explain the rationale for proposing dividend given
that the majority shareholder is about to launch a public offer for the free float in the
company.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, yeah, if you could answer those questions, that would be really helpful. Thanks.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

So, I'm sorry, but concerning the calendar and all the question concerning the shareholder
operation, we cannot comment and I think you will understand. I'm sorry about that, but
this is not our role to comment that. Just one thing about the regulatory framework and
process, there is a need of an approval from the AMF before the launch of every
operation of the type. So, of course, there will be this step, very important step of the
approval of the AMF.
And concerning the dividend that was public that the offer made by La Banque Postale is
with the dividend attached to the price. So that means that when the dividend will be paid,
the price will be lower of the amount of the dividend. So the EUR1 dividend is only kind of
a continuity in the payout ratio of the company because if you look at the payout to the
historical payout ratio, we are completely in the range of the historical payout ratio of
about 45% at the middle of the range. And, of course, when it makes all EUR0.99, we
thought that that was clearer to say EUR1 and that's all and that's very simple.

Q - Pablo Mayo Cerqueiro
Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Page 17 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

Perhaps I can take profit to answer Benoit follow question about the net contract IFRS. You
will find in the glossary which is in our website the evolution of the same kind of KPIs that
was used last year, and we have now achieved net contact IFRS, which is EUR19 millions
and EUR253 millions which is EUR28 per share. You will find also below active net fair
value, which is the amount that we have used this year for our press release. So will see
both and you will see an increase of the active net contact IFRS, which is linked with the
increase of the own funds of the Group. So you have both KPIs, which are present in the
gross service. And so you will be able to do the continuity between last year and this year
for the KPIs you were looking at.

Operator
And our next question comes from Benoit Valleaux, Oddo BHF. Please go ahead, your line
is now open.

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

Yes, hello. Sorry, few follow-up questions from my side and thank you for the explanation. I
looked at the glossary.

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe, first of all, net revenue coming from own fund is slightly above what I expected.
You mentioned some various capital gains. Can you just elaborate a little bit on what has
happened in H2 and in terms of various capital gains especially.
And second question, maybe just to understand it, but it's far too early, but we've seen
this increase churn regarding the remuneration rate of leaves[ph] two weeks ago to 1%.
Have you seen or do you expect any change essentially in your policyholders behavior into
that or not at all? It won't have any impact on your view. And also, as ahead of the next
elections there are some candidates who plan to play some change. What do you see in
inheritance tax? Do you believe that it might has impact on your activity or not really, I
mean, or do you see you this?
And maybe sorry last question, if I may, regarding inflation. I mean, did you see some
negative impact coming from inflation regarding your cost base and what could be the
impact regarding your investment portfolio? Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Thank you, Beniot, but I will begin with the own-funds revenue. We have an increase, I
have said, coming from the equity revenue. We have an increase of EUR28 millions of the
dividends that we have this year. We have also EUR75 million additional margins gains that
we have, not much, but gainst that we have done on the sales of some equities and a
reduction of EUR24 millions of our bonds due to the aversions -- the reduction we have
from euro of our bonds revenues. That's for the main impact that we have for the ownfunds revenue. So perhaps what you didn't get in your estimation was what we were able
to realize for the gains that we realized on equities due to the performance of the equity
markets.

Page 18 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

Concerning the delivery and the behavior of the of the customers, we haven't seen any
change in the behavior of the customers. So this is very clear. No change at all in the
behavior. I'm trying to elaborate on your question about inheritance and the debate of the
elections and so on. First, the first point I want to mention is that this debate is not very
clear. That's the first point. And second, for me, the fact that French people love life
insurance is multifactorial. It's because it's a very flexible product because you can
combine Eurofins with guarantees and unit-linked, a lot of different unit-linked. Of course,
there is -- there are those advantages in tax revenue and in returns, but they have been -they have been a little bit reduced over the years. And now this is not so important for
me, and this is less important than the flexibility of the product and the fact that it's like
the Swiss knife. You know it helps you financing your projects or prepare your pension. So
it's really useful product even with -- and the tax advantage is not -- is by far not the only
interesting characteristic of the product.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Olivier will answer your question about inflation.

A - Olivier Guigne

{BIO 18263857 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Impact of inflation on the investment side. So we tried to build an asset allocation, which
we meant to be on road, so to say. What I will do with that, so we have invested more in
real estate and infrastructure and we consider that could protect us against rising inflation,
and we also have this duration gap that we mentioned before, that is also kind of
protection against rising rates if we do think that rising inflation will be combined by rising
rates. So we maintain this position and we keep this in mind in our asset allocation in 2022
so that we could be protected against some movement in inflation.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

And as far as the cost base is concerned, it's very difficult to know at the moment if
inflation will be totally reflected in the price changes, and then in the wages and so on. So
it's a little bit early to elaborate on that. But as you've seen, we have a very ambitious
project and this is a development project, so that needs investments. So we think that our
cost base will reflect this necessity of investing in order to fulfill our ambition.

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
And we haven't received further questions at this point, I will hand back to the speakers.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much. So we can finish and thank you all for your attention.

Operator
Page 19 of 20



Company N ame: CN P Assurances
Company Ticker: CN P FP Equity
Date: 2022-02-17

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This call has been concluded. You
may disconnect.

Page 20 of 20

