Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

Y 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Abigail Mukhuba, Financial Director
Mlondolozi Mahlangeni, Chief Risk Oﬃcer
Paul Hanratty, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Sydney Mbhele, Group Executive of Brand

Other Participants
Francois du Toit, Analyst
Michael Christelis, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Good morning to everyone joining us this morning. My name is Sydney Mbhele, I'm the
Group Executive for Brand at Sanlam. I hope you are keeping well and living with
conﬁdence as we progress further into 2022. It is my pleasure to welcome you to our 2021
Annual Results Presentation with our Group CEO and the members of the executive
leadership team at Sanlam. I will be facilitating today's presentation, and I hope it will not
only be informative, but also engaging. Paul Hanratty, our Group CEO; and Abigail
Mukhuba, our Financial Director will present today's ﬁnancial results and then after that
we will move into a Q&A session.
Paul, may I please invite you to come on stage.

Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Yeah. Sydney, thank you very much and good morning ladies and gentlemen, and
welcome to the annual results presentation for the full year 2021 from Sanlam. As Sydney
said, I'm joined here in the studio by Abigail Mukhuba and Lotz Mahlangeni. And
hopefully we'll be able to provide you with some background to the past year, a little bit
of a look into the future and to answer any questions that you may have.
I'm going to start today by just providing a very brief overview of the year gone by and
then Abigail will take us into the ﬁnancial results and to the business performance and
then I'll talk a little bit about the priorities that we have in the current year and give you
some sense of how we see the outlook for the medium-term ahead of us. We'll then open
up to Q&A.

Page 1 of 15



FINAL

Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

2021 began with the second wave of the COVID pandemic and this wave proved much
more severe than the initial wave of 2020. We experienced the third wave in the middle of
2021 and this is longer and more severe then the previous waves. South Africa also
experienced extreme civil disruption during July, which exacerbated the third wave. The
fourth wave developed at the end of 2021, but this wave proved a lot less severe than
earlier ways as the Omicron variant became the dominant feature of this fourth wave. The
latter part of 2021 saw the pandemic start to severely impact mortality on much of the
African continent, where previously the impacts of the pandemic had been more muted.
As a result of the ongoing pandemic, the Group experienced heavy mortality losses
during 2021. However, I'm absolutely delighted that despite this diﬃcult operating
environment, the Group has achieved strong operating performance. The Group was able
to use historic reserves to oﬀset the impact of some of the negative mortality experience
and it delivered strong performance across all fronts.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have set ourselves the objective of restoring performance to pre-pandemic levels as
soon as we were able to and I'm delighted to say that we were able to do this in 2021. A
combination of focused advice and sales eﬀorts across the Group, ongoing prudent
underwriting and risk management, excellent servicing of our customers, eﬀorts to keep
persistency high, as well as the launch of a number of new innovative solutions meant that
we were able to exceed all the targets that we'd set for ourselves.
Particularly pleasing was the Group's ability to gain signiﬁcant market share in most
market segments across the Group, really a reﬂection of the Group's promise to
customers during very trying times. The Group has strengthened quite a number of our
key platforms during the year, notably asset management and our linked investment
platforms, we formed some signiﬁcant new partnerships including with MTN to take
mobile insurance across the continent. And the Group has continued to invest in
improving our customer service through digital innovation and to invest in quite a
signiﬁcant portfolio of digital businesses.
Although Abigail will go into the detail of our ﬁnancials, I'll just give you a very high level
picture. The Group's return on Group equity value for the year was 13.9%. And on an
adjusted basis against which we set our targets, the Group achieved an excellent return of
14.6%, roughly 1% ahead of target. The net result for ﬁnancial services was up by 13% on
the previous year, but 18% in constant currency. And our operating income increased by
23% or 28% when you measure it in constant currency.
Our new business exceeded ZAR350 billion for the ﬁrst time in our history, an increase of
14% on the previous year. And with these higher new business volumes and good strong
ﬁnancial management, we had the value of our new business up by 44% and margins, of
course, were very strong. The good new business strong persistency has led to a very
strong net client cash ﬂow, new money net taken in from clients of over ZAR78 billion, an
increase of 27% on 2020. And this was despite the negative impact of much higher
mortality claims. The Board has declared a dividend of ZAR3.34 per share, the same
dividend we declared in 2019, again reﬂecting the recovery in the Group to 2019 prepandemic levels.

Page 2 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

As mentioned, the Group has been focused on restoring operational performance to prepandemic levels. In 2020, the extreme COVID lockdown measures severely impacted our
ability to write new business. However, as measures have eased and the business adapted
to doing business remotely, new business levels have been strongly restored. Proﬁts of
course have been much more diﬃcult to restore to pre-pandemic levels as the 2021
mortality experience from COVID has been much worse than even in 2020.
The Group has been through an extensive exercise to reprice and redesign products,
introducing new underwriting measures to help reduce the COVID risk. Furthermore, our
actuarial assumptions have been reviewed to establish a pandemic reserve on retail life
insurance business and to release some of the historic reserves no longer required by the
business. Ignoring some positive one-oﬀs in 2019 mainly relating to India, the 2021 proﬁt
has been restored to those 2019 levels by utilizing the reserve releases to oﬀset the higher
mortality losses in 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Group believes that the pricing changes we've made, the reserving changes we've
made and the underwriting actions taken should mean that future mortality losses from
the pandemic should be modest, although the future course of the pandemic is extremely
diﬃcult to predict precisely.
Within South Africa, all of our businesses had strong operating performance, underlined
by strong new business ﬂows and strong net client cash ﬂow into our asset management
business. Market share gains were achieved in all market segments with the assistance
from partnerships and our strong empowerment credentials in the asset management
space. Persistency was excellent, supported by strong data analytics, which have helped
to identify where our clients require support.
Within the Rest of Africa, the Group achieved solid general insurance growth and
satisfactory underwriting margins, but the growth in the life insurance and asset
management businesses were particularly pleasing. The Group continued to rebalance
the ﬂoat of assets in Morocco against the backdrop of a rising equity market that assisted
us in this process. The Group continued to improve the existing platform in Africa and in
South Africa across which we operate and to make ourselves much more digitally
accessible to clients. Our digitally-native businesses have shown very strong growth in this
year.
The value of our empowerment credentials achieved through the transaction that we had
with African Rainbow Capital, coupled with a very strong recognition of Sanlam
Investments strong ESG proﬁle have been amply demonstrated with net client cash ﬂow
during the year of some ZAR33 billion, an increase of 56% over the previous year.
The Sanlam corporate business made strong strategic progress during the year with
strengthened umbrella, healthcare and insurance oﬀerings. The transactions with
Alexander Forbes will strengthen our retirement proposition and the joint healthcare
developments with AfroCentric have provided new value for money options to the
healthcare markets. Our Glacier LISP business has considerable scale potential to be
added to it, following the Alexander Forbes and Absa asset management transactions.

Page 3 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

The Group entered into a long-term partnership with MTN, which has access to a very
large customer base across the African continent. And we believe that as mobile banking
develops, we will be able to access many customers through this relationship at low cost.
The Group completed the exit of the UK life, planning and wealth businesses and the
proceeds of these transactions will strengthen the discretionary capital position of the
Group further, as they close.
The Group began the year with discretionary capital of just ZAR600 million and it ended
the year with almost ZAR3 billion of discretionary capital. I think it's very important to note
that we did a very large range of transactions during the course of 2021. Those
transactions where we acquired businesses have all been done with the use of a very, very
limited amount of capital, but of course, the disposal of our interest in the UK have
released capital. So, while the Group has historically aim to hold around ZAR1 billion of
discretionary capital to execute on ad hoc opportunities, going forward, we've taken a
slightly diﬀerent view. Given the current context, the Group has taken the decision to hold
a higher than usual level of discretionary capital. The Group aims to hold a minimum
discretionary capital of ZAR3 billion until such time as the COVID pandemic no longer
poses any risk to operating performance. The progress of the pandemic itself and the
eﬀectiveness of management actions will both inﬂuence the Group's assessments of the
ongoing need for a higher discretionary capital buﬀer.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Group's purpose, as you know, is to empower generations to be ﬁnancially conﬁdent,
secure and prosperous. This means our sustainability focus is very much centered around
ﬁnancial inclusion which is a massive empowerment force both in Africa and India. We're
also focused on poverty alleviation and job-creation, as well as reversing the impacts of
climate change, which is so devastating to the African continent.
We are pleased to have performed our ﬁrst climate change report and this is an area in
which we all further develop our reporting to the market on what we're doing. The Group
strengthened our Board in 2021 and we have a majority of independent members of the
Board now, as well as truly excellent gender and broader diversity.
The Group is now focused on transitioning back to the oﬃce in a new hybrid operating
model. We all came back on the 1st of March. We plan carefully and we're hopeful that a
return to the oﬃce will lift performance further. We've been missing the opportunity to
coordinate our eﬀorts at the oﬃce, and relish the opportunity to work more closely
together.
I will now hand over to Abigail, who will take you through a more detailed analysis of our
ﬁnancial results.

Abigail Mukhuba

{BIO 20217730 <GO>}

Thank you, Paul. Good morning. We are pleased that our performance has recovered to
pre-pandemic levels, despite the signiﬁcant impact of COVID on mortality claims across
the Group's operations. Today, I will focus the presentation on constant currency
comparison by line of business instead of by cluster as we've become accustomed to.

Page 4 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

Earnings increased by 18% on 2020 and marginally lower compared to 2019. However, as
Paul already mentioned, when one excludes the one-oﬀ of 2019, it is 4% higher than 2019.
Overall, the new business volumes were up 16%, supported by strong sales growth in the
life and investment business.
Group net fund inﬂows increased by 32% on 2020. The biggest driver of this came from
our investment business, which improved net inﬂows by 56% to ZAR33 billion, with strong
contributions from both retail and institutional funds. Life net ﬂows also exceeded 2020
when one excludes excess claims payments. We are pleased with the net VNB
performance, which showed strong improvement across the portfolio with all businesses
above the 2019 levels.

Bloomberg Transcript

We saw a signiﬁcant increase in excess claims in 2021. As Paul already mentioned, we had
three waves impacting 2021 in Southern and East Africa and then we had wave two
impacting India. All of the waves had a negative impact on our performance. Wave four
did have a much softer impact compared to two and three. However, since our South
African operations have the largest life insurance exposure, they were also reﬂecting
much higher value of excess claims, which also treads those of the broader South African
population infection experience.
Group net excess claims of ZAR4.2 billion were recorded. The Group risk business in
Sanlam Corporate and Retail Mass was impacted more than the individual life business.
And as part of the annual review of our actuarial valuation basis, our SLS cluster
implemented a package of basis changes, which included additional releases of
discretionary reserve, positive persistency assumption changes, as well as a strengthening
of the mortality basis to allow for future pandemics.
SLS excess claims were therefore largely oﬀset by a combination of these basis changes,
as well as the repricing that Paul already alluded to of the Group risk business. Our
Emerging Markets business on the other hand holds less discretionary reserves, resulting
in a negative net excess claims impact on earnings. Excess claims of ZAR630 million were
recorded in this business, the majority of which were in the SPA Life business. The overall
impact on SEM earnings was partially oﬀset by discretionary reserve releases of ZAR148
million, which together with the repricing of Group risk business did not fully oﬀset some
excess claims impact on our P&L. As such, we ended up having a net negative impact of
ZAR466 million on the Group's earnings in this regard. We believe that the Group risk
market has been consistently underpricing premiums for pandemic and we are hopeful
that more rational pricing will prevail in the market in future.
This slide seeks to summarize our value creation performance as measured by RoGEV. We
show a table in the detailed results that explains the detailed contribution between
covered and non-covered businesses. So, I'm not going to go into too much detail.
However, we are pleased that we achieved an adjusted return on Group equity value of
14.6% per share against that 13.6% hurdle. The core operations produced excellent
RoGEV, which was supported by an exceptional VNB performance. The excess COVID
claims more than oﬀset the positive experience variance from persistency, maintenance
expenses, as well as credit spreads, contributing to an overall negative 2.4% impact on
adjusted RoGEV.
Page 5 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

The overall package of actuarial basis changes that we already talked to, which included
the release of discretionary reserves, as well as half of the 5% COVID-related mass lapse
assumption change that was implemented in 2020, oﬀset the negative operating
experience variances. Economic assumption changes had a negative impact due to the
upward movements in long-term interest rates over the year in some of the markets.
If we look on to the solvency position, the following changes have been implemented into
the solvency calculation in 2021 compared to 2020. The accounting consolidation method
that was used for the South African insurance entities in calculating the Group's solvency
position was impacted, as well as we now adjust for foreseeable dividends, which are now
deducted from Group-owned funds when we calculate this ratio. We have adjusted the
target range to be consistent with the revised treatment of foreseeable dividends. We also
adjusted for the amendment in the business mix and risk proﬁle of the Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

On an operational basis, if you look at our SCR cover ratio, it was positively impacted by
excellent operating proﬁt and VNB, partly oﬀset by the 2021 negative mortality
experience. However, on a like-for-like basis, the Group solvency position continued to be
strong, resilient, as well as well within the regulatory requirements and our own target
ranges.
I will now move to highlight some of the key line of business performance. And at the end
of the printed slides or if you've downloaded our slides, you will notice that we've got the
old format at the back of the pack, but I'm going to focus on the line of business as I
already alluded to. The Life business continues to be the biggest contributor to the
Group's earnings performance. Life insurance earnings were broadly in line with 2020
with the two biggest impacts being excess claims and the increase in new business strain
because of the higher sales volumes.
Retail Mass recorded strong performances from the individual Life and Capitec Bank
funeral businesses, supported by larger in-force books, our expense savings, positive
investment variances and economy basis changes. This performance was our ever
signiﬁcantly impacted by a substantial decline in earnings from the Group risk business
due to excess claims. Retail Aﬄuent earnings were also negatively impacted by excess
claims and higher new business strain. The higher earnings from the savings business and
Glacier were supported by higher average assets under management.
On the corporate side, this is the class that that was most severely impacted by excess
claims. If one exclude the impact of excess claims and repricing, Sanlam Corporate
earnings were up 10%. In the same business, life insurance achieved excellent growth
excluding the corporate-related excess claims across the portfolio.
Cross-selling of life insurance in the former Saham client base is yielding satisfactory
results for us both from a VNB and earnings perspective. India was particularly impacted
by higher mortality claims. Overall, life insurance new business volumes increased by 31%
despite a challenging operating condition because of the impact of COVID. Retail Mass'
strong new business sales were supported by improved agent productivity as well as

Page 6 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

increased use of digital tools, whilst on the Retail Aﬄuent side they achieved substantial
growth driven by Glacier single premium.
Recurring premium risk sales growth was more muted as improved growth from the
Individual Life, Indie, MiWay Life businesses were partially oﬀset by weaker sales of
assistance and group risk business in BrightRock. Individual risk sales from traditional
intermediate channels, including BrightRock increased by 10% on 2020. Sanlam
Corporate new business volume growth was driven by both single and recurring premium
life business. Recurring premium quote activity in this segment has however has
recovered to pre-pandemic levels, although the conversion rates remain lower.
Pan-Africa achieved a strong overall 35% volume growth in life insurance business,
beneﬁting also from cross-selling in the former Saham region. Group net life insurance
fund inﬂows of ZAR13 billion were 9% lower than 2020 and 21% lower than 2019. The
signiﬁcant improvement in Retail Aﬄuent was not suﬃcient to oﬀset the large mortality
related outﬂows in Sanlam Corporate. However, if you exclude these excess mortality
claims, fund inﬂows were 33% higher than 2020 and 21% higher than 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

The 21% lower contribution from Pan-Africa contributed to the overall decline with large
corporate related outﬂows in Namibia and Botswana. Again here, if you excluded the
impact of excess mortality claims, fund inﬂows were only 5% lower of the high 2020 base.
However, still 2% higher than 2019.
All businesses recorded strong VNB improvements and they achieved levels above those
of 2019 driven by improved volumes and a favorable higher margin product mix. The
Group's net VNB margin on a consistent economic basis was higher than 2020 and was
also in line with 2019. Particularly pleasing to us was also the signiﬁcant improvement in
the emerging markets VNB margin, which reached levels of 4%.
On the general insurance side Santam recorded strong operating results for 2021 with
earnings more than doubling relative to 2020. This performance was impacted by the CBI
provisions on the prior year results and the lower motor book proﬁts in 2021, as claims
normalized after the lockdown in 2020. SPA GI recorded strong earnings growth mainly
due to the positive impact of return on ﬂoat given the equity markets recovery in 2021.
The format Saham businesses achieved margins within their target ranges, whilst the India
insurance operations detracted from this growth. Shriram General Insurance earnings
continued to be negatively impacted by the lack of regulated premium increases in thirdparty business and limited ability to ﬁnalize claims due to cost in India continuing to
operate at limited capacity, and this has an impact on our ability to ﬁnalize claims.
Santam achieved satisfactory gross written premium growth in the conventional insurance
business and this was supported by good growth in Santam Re, as well as MiWay, where
MiWay achieved an impressive growth of 9% in the current operating environment. The
gross written premiums from outside South Africa grew by 6% beneﬁting from the strong
growth at Santam Re.

Page 7 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

SPA GI's growth was driven by higher volume in the motor and health business lines in
Morocco and an improved performance from Continental Re, partially oﬀset by weaker
sales in the assistance business and the cancellation of loss-making health business in
Cote d'Ivore. India, new business volumes declined due to the lack of the premium
increases that I already referred to.
On the underwriting margin, the Santam conventional business recorded a net
underwriting margin of 8% of net and premiums. SPA GI recorded a net underwriting
margin just below 5% -- just below the 5% to 9% target range, due to the adverse claims
experienced in Cote d'Ivore. As mentioned earlier, the Saham business achieved margins
within the target range and India's underwriting margins declined.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then on the insurance margin side, Santam's performance beneﬁted from improved
liability and property classes, partly oﬀset by normalization in the motor book, as well as
the lower interest rates impacting investment return on insurance funds. A net insurance
margin of 16% was achieved in the SPA GI business for 2021 relative to the 9% in 2020,
again here due to higher investment return on insurance funds, which improved to 11.9%
compared to just below 3% in 2020. The Moroccan business reported a ﬂoat margin of
21% on the back of strong equity markets. SGI's net insurance result however remains
satisfactory at 25% of net earned premiums.
Overall Group asset management earnings were up 29% on 2020, with all lines of
business contributing positively. Wealth management beneﬁted from higher performance
fees, assets under management and diversiﬁcation initiatives, as well as higher
institutional brokerage fees, partially oﬀset by lower retail brokerage fees. The
international business increase is supported by an improved performance from Sanlam
UK.
Pan-Africa's asset management business experienced strong net inﬂows in the past two
years, supporting the higher asset base on which the fees are earned. Inﬂows more than
doubled in Sanlam Investments with strong recoveries in both retail and institutional
funds as we reposition ourselves as an impact asset manager with a diversiﬁed asset
management business, whose primary focus is on client solutions. This business further
beneﬁted from advanced digital solutions to enable businesses in Satrix, Sanlam MultiManager, as well as the Platforms business.
Retail Aﬄuent Glacier LISP business performed exceptionally well. And in SPA, the new
business grew oﬀ a high base in 2020 as further large mandates were awarded in
Botswana, Namibia and Kenya.
On the credit and structuring line of business, Sanlam personal loans beneﬁted from
lower bad debts, partly oﬀset by lower interest income from a decline in the advances
book. We deliberately curtailed new advances as a risk mitigant and a prevailing market
condition. SanFin achieved excellent results due to the contraction of credit spreads and
improvement in the share prices of equity exposures. However, the operating
environment remains challenging with low transaction volumes and higher probability of
defaults due to the longer term impact of COVID uncertain business sectors.

Page 8 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

We saw lower sales volumes from the Indian credit business during the hard lockdown
periods. Provisions had to be strengthened while sales and collections were also
impacted negatively. However, regardless of this tough operating environment, the Indian
business recorded -- recovered soon after and ended the year with a larger book
compared to 2020. It achieved an increase in earnings year-on-year due to higher net
interest from improved collections in the Group book growth.
Thank you very much. I will hand back to Paul.

Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Abigail, thank you very much indeed for taking us through the results and presenting it, I
think, very simply to the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm going to just talk very brieﬂy about the priorities for the year ahead and the outlook
that we see in the operating environment. We will need to continue to carefully monitor
the progress of the COVID pandemic across the entire continent. We will also very
carefully monitor the eﬀectiveness of our actuarial changes aimed at mitigating the impact
of the pandemic on our ﬁnances and we will adapt our response if required.
We're extremely positive about the prospects for 2022 and for the medium-term, having
set a strong base in 2021. To this end, we aim to remain focused on our clients and
building on the successes of 2021. Our progress on the digitalization of existing
operations will continue with the aim of creating better customer outcomes and better
eﬃciencies over time. Our Group will remain focused on sustainability and ESG issues as
a core part of our business with the focus remaining very strongly on ﬁnancial inclusion,
Poverty Alleviation, job creation and positively impacting on climate change. Our Group
needs to complete and fully operationally integrate the acquisitions of 2021. This is going
to take a great deal of eﬀorts.
The Group is also excited about operationalizing our MTN joint venture. The Group will
continue to allocate capital judiciously and we will continue to explore opportunities to
strengthen our Sanlam Emerging Markets franchise. Our focus on continuously improving
our culture remains and we will be particularly important as we adapt to hybrid working
models, which are really a new thing for all of us. From the 1st of March, as I mentioned
earlier, we've returned our people to oﬃce on a hybrid basis and we need to work
through all the practical implications of this change of working mode.
It's quite interesting, Sanlam was founded after the Spanish ﬂu. So this pandemic is truly
proven to be a one in 100 year event. We as a Group are now looking forward having
overcome this pandemic to renewed growth from 2022. The Group has a great
opportunity over time to beneﬁt from the growth of our continent, the demographic
dividend of Africa and the low level of ﬁnancial services penetration across the continent.
Within South Africa, the Group has strengthened its fortress position in our view. This
creates the prospect of good growth even in a modest growth economic environment,
scale truly does matter, and I think that will feed through to our bottom line. The Group
Page 9 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

believes that there are further opportunities to develop our platform within the Group,
both within South Africa and the broader African continent and we remain open to taking
such opportunities when they arise.
The Group of course will be heavily focused on tracking and monitoring the pandemic.
The Group, as I mentioned earlier, will hold a signiﬁcantly higher level of discretionary
capital until such time that we are satisﬁed that there is no risk to Group earnings and
dividends from the pandemic. Once we reach this point, the Group will review its
approach to discretionary capital and I assure you we will follow our normal capital
allocation policy and practice in this regard. In fact, we've created some ﬂexibility for the
Group going forward.
Naturally, we are extremely concerned about the ramiﬁcations of the Ukrainian crisis.
Aside from the human tragedy, the impact on global energy prices, inﬂation in food
security and ﬁnancial markets does pose risk to our business, as well as other businesses
and it further reinforces our decision to hold a higher level of discretionary capital. So we
do still continue to face some challenges in the short-term in the environment, but I do
believe this is a very strong business and franchise and then we set a path for growth into
the future, and we remain very bullish about the medium to long term prospects, given
where we've positioned the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, thank you very much for listening to Abigail and myself. We're now going to open up
to questions. And we're going to be joined by Lotz, who will deal with any of the tricky
technical questions that some of you may pose to us. Thanks very much.

Questions And Answers
A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen; and thank you so much, Paul and Abigail, for that
informative presentation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now joined by Lotz Mahlangeni,
Chief Risk Oﬃcer and Chief Actuary, Sanlam. Welcome, Lotz.

A - Mlondolozi Mahlangeni

{BIO 21927635 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Let's start by checking if there are any questions on the webcast. And if there are any
questions, I'm going to ask you to ﬁrst begin by introducing yourself, which organization
you represent before you pose your question or questions, and then we can get into the
question. So, let's just check once again if there are any questions on the webcast.
While we are waiting for the questions on the webcast, we'll probably go try the
telephone line and let's see if there are any questions on the telephone line.

Operator
Page 10 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

At the moment, we have no questions from the telephone line. (Operator Instructions) We
have a question from Francois du Toit of Anchor Capital. Please go ahead.

Q - Francois du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, guys. Just checking, can you hear me?

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

We can certainly hear you.

Q - Francois du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you. Just quickly around the COVID impact. So from your slides and from
the EV statement, it looks like the excess claim impact net of tax was around ZAR4.2 billion
and the result releases including discretionary margin releases oﬀset it to the tune of
ZAR3 billion. Is it fair to say normalized levels of life earnings would have been ZAR1.2
billion higher, if it hadn't been for the pandemic? That's ﬁrst question. Maybe you can just
discuss a little bit around the retail mass volumes. I see it's very strongly up in the second
half of this year, I think about 30% up on the previous period. If you can, just give a little
bit of color of where that growth is coming from please.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you so much, Francois. Let's start with the ﬁrst question on the COVID
impact. Abigail or Lotz, you want to take that question?

A - Mlondolozi Mahlangeni

{BIO 21927635 <GO>}

I'll take that question. Thank you. Good morning, Francois. It's great to hear from you.
Yeah, so I think the question was (inaudible) or excess claims was ZAR4.2 billion and yeah
you referred to them the ﬁgure of ZAR3 billion. So what we have done is the full impact of
the ZAR4.2 billion of excess claims, if you separate it between the Emerging Markets
impact of ZAR460 [ph] million after tax, the SLS impact which is remaining impact was
fully oﬀset by the treasury reserve releases. And what one would not look at also from
from an EV perspective is that some of the treasury reserve releases did have some reef
attached to them. And so it won't be a ﬂoat from an EV perspective, but the full impact of
the excess claims of ZAR4.2 billion less if was the to see there was an oﬀset by reserve
releases was oﬀset by discretionary reserve releases as well as the repricing.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Thank you a Lotz.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

(inaudible) maybe to comment on the retail mass volumes, so the retail mass volumes
increased, Francois, really across the board, very similar performance out of the Capitec
channel, as well as our traditional business. Our traditional business, we believe, we've
been working very hard to raise productivity levels amongst our people. That was the

Page 11 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

primary driver for that. I think within Capitec really again just a rebound in activity in
branches that lies behind that.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Paul. I hope that satisﬁes your questions, Francois. Let's check once again, if
there is any further questions on the telephone line.

Operator
We do have a question from Michael Christelis of UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Hi, guys. Can you hear me?

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Yes, we can hear you Michael.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Yeah. Good morning, guys. Thanks for the time. I tried to send my questions through to
the webcast, but I don't think they went through. If I can ask three questions, ﬁrstly, can
you give any color as to what possible types of transactions you're looking at with
Aliansce. I mean there's a lot of concern out there as to whether or not you're buying their
businesses, selling to them or some form of partnership. I mean, just we're not asking for
speciﬁcs, but just what type of transaction you're looking at?
The second one is your thoughts around India at the moment and potential additional
capital deployment there, particularly once the structure is clean that post the merger of
the two listed entities?
And then thirdly, if I look at your slide, I think the Slide 14, it shows (inaudible) concerning
increase in mortality claims in the mass foundation plus for wave four, which seems out of
line with what we've seen from excess debts and from some of the other insurers that
have reported. Is that -- I see that's rand million, is that a function of a much bigger book
or are you actually seeing (inaudible) mortality variances in that book for wave four?
Thanks.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Thank you, Michael.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

I'll take the ﬁrst two and I'm sure Lotz will answer the last one. So, Michael, I was surprised
to see you weren't ﬁrst in, so obviously the webcast is the explanation for you coming
second today, but nice to hear your questions anyway. Look, around the cautionary that
we issued around Aliansce, of course, we are not in any position to discuss with you or
Page 12 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

FINAL

anyone else just exactly where things are. But what I would say to you is our strategy is
very clear, we haven't changed it, we remain focused on the African continent. We have a
very big -- I think, we've got the biggest insurance position across the continent. Aliansce,
of course, do have a portfolio in Africa. And we continue to explore how we can
strengthen our position with them. But you will have to wait until we've concluded or not
concluded any transaction and then we will brief you and everybody else simultaneously.
Your second question pertaining to India, what we've done at this point is a restructuring
that really helps us from an after-tax point of view, because it cleans up the structure and
simpliﬁes it. It's very hard for us to comment again on what we may or may not do. We are
bullish in the long run on India, notwithstanding that in the last year, of course, both on
the Life, the credit and the GI side it has not been a stellar year, because of the various
impacts of COVID, but we do think that it's a valuable business with good long-term
prospects. So, we still remain on balance positively disposed to India. But of course we
also need to be guided by our own targets and long-term return hurdles and prices in
India and valuations are extremely high. And so, anything that we do do will need to be
carefully considered to make sure that we can get the kind of returns that that we target.
So, we really remain ﬂexible there. I think our situation has improved, because of the
restructuring of the business, but we are not going to commit one way or the other. It will
depend really on the opportunities that present themselves.
In terms of the mortality, I'll ask -- I don't know Lotz are you the best person to comment
or Abigail.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Have you got the question or do you want me to read the question again?

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

No, no, I can get across. Thanks. Hi, Michael. So I think you answered your own question
there, because I mean the answer is the fact that there is a bigger book. If you look at the
new business volume that have been generated by Retail Mass across individual Group
business, has been very strong in the past few years. So, the book is a lot larger. And the
reason why you are seeing that pattern is because of a larger book. Those are gross
claims. So the bigger your book, the bigger it will be you gross claims.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Great. Thank you, Lotz; thank you, Paul. Any more questions on the telephone line?

Operator
We have no further questions on the conference call.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

No further questions at this point. Let's go to the webcast. We've got a question from
Warwick Bam from Avior Capital Markets. The question is you mentioned that Sanlam

Page 13 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

corporate operational earnings rose 10% year-on-year, excluding excess mortality. Did the
timing of your repricing beneﬁts for full year 2021 or will the repricing beneﬁt be more
signiﬁcant in full year 2022?

FINAL

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Warwick, nice to hear from you. It may Abigail or Lotz may want to take this, but it is fair to
say that the repricing of the corporate book, the way it happens is that you reprice on
renewals. And renewals are not spread evenly over the year and the bulk of the beneﬁt of
the repricing was not felt in 2021. We felt that we were quite early into the repricing, but
still I think particularly with the beneﬁt of hindsight, you would have liked to see that
repricing happening much more quickly.
And my own view, which may be a bit parochial to me, is that I do think that the entire
market for Group risk beneﬁts is going to have to rethink about the way in which it works.
It clearly doesn't price for pandemics and this ability to only reprice once a year, if you get
hit by something like this is a really severe and you can see in our results, it's really that
part of the business, the Group Risk business, that is really hurt us from a ﬁnancial point of
view much more than the retail business.
I don't know Lotz or Abigail, if you want to add any color.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Abigail Mukhuba

{BIO 20217730 <GO>}

No, I think you've covered it. The 10% increase, just to conﬁrm, we've excluded both the
excess claims impact, as well as the repricing impact. So that we get it like-for-like
comparison.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Great. Thank you so much. I mean those are the only questions we have so far on the
webcast. I just want to check one more time on the telephone line, if there is any other
question. Otherwise, I'm going to just ask Paul maybe just closing comments.

A - Paul Hanratty

{BIO 7445748 <GO>}

Sydney, thanks very much. And thank you very much to everybody who's joined us today.
I know that it's probably a very busy reporting time for all of you and we want to wish you
luck. I want to thank Lotz and Abigail as well, but particularly the Salnam management
team, because of course we are really just here to present the results we don't produce
the results. And really thank you very much to our entire team, who, I think have produced
an exceptional set of results for the market.

A - Sydney Mbhele

{BIO 20089938 <GO>}

Thank you so much, Paul. Thank you, Abigail and Lotz for joining us this morning. And
thank you to the rest of the leadership team of Sanlam and the broader staﬀ. And would
like to now get this presentation to the end to our guests who have joined us this
morning. Thank you for attending. And I hope that you found this session informative as

Page 14 of 15



Company Name: Sanlam Ltd
Company Ticker: SLM SJ Equity
Date: 2022-03-10

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

much as I did. As we sign oﬀ, I'd like to wish you and your families a safe day and all the
best for the remainder of 2022. Thank you and goodbye.

Page 15 of 15

