Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Y 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariol, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Member of the Management Board
Oliver Bate, Chairman of the Management Board & Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie
Ashik Musaddi
Kamran Hossain
Michael Huttner
Peter Eliot
Thomas Fossard
Vinit Malhotra
Will Hardcastle
William Hawkins

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon, everybody and welcome to the Alliance Conference Call on the Financial
Results of 2021. Before we start the call let me remind you that this conference call is
being streamed live on alliance.com and YouTube, and that the recording will be made
available shortly after the call. (Operator Instructions) All right, that was all from my side
for now, and with that, I turn the call over to our CEO, Oliver Bate.

Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon and good morning, wherever you are maybe good evening in Asia.
Thanks for joining today, we had quite some movement yesterday on a few items that, by
the way, we are very happy about. We're going to spend some time on it. For those of you
that have not been able to listen to our press call early in the morning, I wanted to make
sure that we understand we have read out and are publishing a statement with regard to
Structured Alpha and we can't really comment on that as we said there except for a few
facts. So be aware that if and when you have questions, we need to really stick to what
we've said.
I think that's the ﬁrst comment, I'd like to make the other one that was more procedural is
to actually go quickly only through the presentation that I have because I think you're all
very eager to talk and listen to Giulio to ask what was the attritional loss ratio in Brazil, and
Page 1 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

all of these really interesting things. So, I will be very quick in terms of where we are. Three
messages we have. Allianz's delivery is stronger and stronger and stronger. Yes, we may
have people that believe there's an overshadow. Some people that want to take
advantage of the situation, the underlying message we have the cash and capital
generation of power of the group is continuously growing. And I'm going to show you
that in a second.
The second thing is we are accelerating the speed of our transformation particular in
terms of making our balance sheet lighter, more capital eﬃcient, and less volatile. The
vast majority of that pertains obviously to the life insurance segment, but unnoticed by
many people, we've also become one of the strongest asset managers in the world. And
that is no coincidence and also no luck. It is really systematic work as we believe we have
a unique value proposition at the intersection between what used to be called life
insurance and asset management. And that's something I would like to highlight. And
then I'm going to talk about conﬁdence, conﬁdence in the future as you will see in our
numbers, even if they are as occasionally something we need to wrestle with we move on
because we are able to absorb shocks in a way that very few others can and we obviously
want to make sure there is going to be less and less volatility going forward as we deal
with various items out there.
So these are the three chapters, let me just turn your attention to Page A3 now. So
revenues up 6% in an environment where very few people were growing almost EUR150
billion in revenues. Our operating proﬁt up 25% from the last COVID year, remember, '21
was still COVID and we are very proud of that. Shareholders net income slightly down
because of the EUR2.8 billion net income hit that we had to take in order to address the
vast majority of litigation exposure on Structured Alpha. This is really important. So we are
very happy that we can ﬁnally book and take care of the investors in the Structured Alpha
fund and make them whole. We are increasing our dividend per share by 13%. That's
exactly in line with the guidance that we gave in 2018.
Last year we all beneﬁted from the ratchet despite the fact that the year was very tough.
And our solvency ratio is -- for 2021 is 209 even after Structured Alpha. And that is also
super important.
Now, in terms of return on equity, it is after the Structured Alpha booking at 10.6 that is, by
the way, higher than most insurers have it's important to notice before the Structured
Alpha it would have been at 14.9 so an extremely high number and that is obviously to be
normalized and Guilio will talk a little bit about the way we have to think about net income
and ROE going forward. Particularly also when -- if and when accounting changes,
because net income is always volatile.
We have announced EUR1 billion of share buyback you will ask very soon, I can guess do - can we do more in this year and we obviously have to be always very cautious. But I
always answer the same way, we have every incentive to not sit on excess capital, but
distribute it back to shareholders if and when we see the opportunity because everybody
in Allianz has an incentive to produce signiﬁcant returns on invested capital and do that
very well and grow. So we are always trying to get the balance right between returning
capital and growing the earnings and over the last few years I think we've struck the right
Page 2 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

balance. So if and when we have excess capital accumulating, we will not have it sit idle.
That's the comment I would like to make at this point in time.
Now when you look at what we've been able to deliver as the CEO, I'd like to point out,
great ﬁnancial KPIs are an outcome of a healthy organization, and healthy organization
starts with two very simple observations. If you have the happiest customers in your
industry, you will also do well and if you have highly motivated people, you also going to
do well. Ideally, if you have both, you're going to really win.
So we have been focusing on driving our net promoter score, that's the willingness of our
customers to recommend our services and products to their friends and family up. And
now we have 84% of our businesses, that's the life insurance businesses, the P&C
insurance businesses, the health insurance businesses, 84% are above market average in
terms of NPS. And actually almost 60% are loyalty leaders i.e. have the highest customer
satisfaction. So, as of next year, we are really lifting the ambition and are going to focus on
loyalty leadership as the aspiration and target for all our businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

The same time, despite COVID, we have been able to bring employee motivation up. By
the way, we measure that on many ways. Here is the most important one that measures
leadership a equality in the eyes of our people. We call that Eye Mix, but you can also look
at engagement numbers or what something we call Work Well. All these indicators have
improved more strongly than we were hoping for. And particularly, in light of COVID,
there was no small achievements. And in particular relative to competition, we can
measure that 2021 a number of companies saw employee engagement actually go down,
and we have been able to remain super strong.
So the management team is very proud of this achievement, very strong operating
performance and very strong health indicators, and that can be measured in many
diﬀerent ways that you can see on Page A5, whether that's on customer, and I would like
to point out the importance particularly in the digital age of having a strong brand, we
have been now the number one brand for Interbrand for a number of years and we are
very happy with that and we keep on investing but also now on brand ﬁnance we're the
undisputed number one. So the brand is super important and the value that it comes with
and we are investing heavily in order to make sure that translates into higher customer
acquisition, lower acquisition cost and much better ﬂow than others can achieve.
The second one I'd like to mention is not just about having highly motivated staﬀ, but also
driving diversity and inclusion now, unthinkable just six years ago, 30% of our operating
proﬁt are managed by female CEOs just last year we promoted three senior women to
run our most important life businesses. Allianz Life of America, Allianz -- in Stuttgart and
our Asian business all highly competent women, and so we're making a lot of progress
there. As we are on many other items that reﬂect diversity and inclusion.
Last but certainly not least. We remain fully committed to the topic of climate change, you
know that particularly -- and his team are spending a lot of time to make our investment
side to fully compliant with Net Zero. And we're doing it in the way that doesn't claim
something for in 30 years, but we really having targets that are short term credible and we

Page 3 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

are moving, and we are continuously moving in this one. And there are many other items
that we are driving into the core of our business over the next few years. Think about the
claims networks that really can be greened and other items. And therefore, we have
established last year a dedicated function at the center of the group to drive that
including a committee that is dedicated to the ESG issue at the supervisory Board.
So again, lots of investments across stakeholders to deliver a better outcomes. Now,
better outcomes, what are we talking about? Some of you will say well, that is not
something I can put in a spreadsheet. It's true, but it's very important. For us, it's very
important to think about what role do we play in society for our clients. And we have
spent years now on developing our purpose with thousands of employees. And we
secure your future is super important I'm going to mention that when we get to asset
management in a while, now you can only be successful if you have the trust of the
various stakeholders. So the real aspiration is to be the trusted partner for protecting and
growing your most valuable assets and that may not be just your house your car or your
investment, but it also is your health and your mental well-being.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that is what really we are focusing on and that is we are trying to take care of the things
that are most important for our clients. In order to achieve that we need to make three
promises and deliver on them. Number one, I mentioned that before took a strike a
careful balance across stakeholders and diﬀerence to many companies we have
hardwired, as in all of our incentives it's not just a slogan. We need to deliver benchmark
results at scale. This is at scale, we're going to talk about more the next few years because
as we are driving forward, we need to take our size and not make it a problem of
complexity but make it an advantage that we can get because we have the scale that very
few others have.
And last but not least. We need to show strong resilience in a fundamentally transforming
world. We may have more like activities around the corner tensions between the
superpowers in the world that we are in volatility will be abound and people need to be
sure that we secure your future means, Allianz is there even if the going gets tough and
we're going to talk about that in more detail. It means that tail risks need to be managed
very, very carefully and Structured Alpha again for us has been a reminder of the necessity
to look into every corner of what we do and to make sure that something like that cannot
ever happen again.
Now, if we think about value creation over the next few years. It's pretty simple
conceptually. It's around driving growth, and I'm always amazed when I look at the
spreadsheet of the analysts as only focuses on two years, not the long term, and then
growth forecasts at like 2%. How can that ever be. When you look at the last 10 years,
we've been growing very well. So, that is important. We're going to drive that based on
our strengths even more strongly than in the past. By the way, you see that in the 2021
numbers already, whether that is revenues, whether that is net ﬂows, whether that is value
of new business.
All these numbers are growing double-digit and have been, and we are going to grow
that even further. The second thing is margin expansion. There is still a lot of upside in
terms of productivity that we have and we've shown that across the business that we are
Page 4 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

highly resilient despite commoditization, think about asset management, the move to
passive, our margins are not declining the way to have been forecasted and we keep on
growing with record ﬂows and the last, but certainly not least is capital eﬃciency. And we
have worked a lot and the project Lucy which we announced on this, in December on the
third and have closed on December 30, on U.S. live that's basically moving ROE of this
business up, but from 11% to 19% and that's a cautious assessment based on this one
movement is showing the power of leveraging private markets to drive capital eﬃciency.
So the move from warehousing risk and warehousing tail risk in large balance sheets to
being having more eﬃcient balance sheet is very much at the core of our strategy and
while others talk, we deliver just the think about the EUR3.6 billion in capital that we were
able to lift out of AG Life and it's not the end of the story. We have ﬁve levers, which we
delineated in the capital markets day, many of you participated and gave us feedback. So
I'm not going to dwell on that for a long time and repeat that because that would bore
you. So let me just reiterate the point around life and asset management because it is still
not well understood that the vast majority of our proﬁt now and the growth is coming
from life asset management and that's a good thing.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are having very strong ﬂows, much improved productivity, very high customer
satisfaction. By the way, AGI has done a phenomenal job last year, think about the fact
that they had Structured Alpha and that was made -- the highly -- staﬀ, motivated staﬀ
productivity is approaching the levels of PIMCO now, at the same time and they had more
than EUR40 billion in net ﬂows, everything at the same time. We strengthened investment
performance, given the very diﬃcult legal environment. That is no small achievement.
Now, what I think and also are reporting, doesn't highlight properly is that the fact we
have many competitive advantages, because we can combine the know how we have on
our -- in our asset managers in aim with a power we have a life insurance company. So as
the world didn't know what to do in terms of life products, we could leverage into new
products very quickly that combined the best of life insurance and asset management.
And by the way, also on the health side, in order to both create more value for consumers,
because we can oﬀer much higher risk-adjusted returns. And that also means we have
higher margins as we bring in alternative assets in other more stable and higher margin
products.
So, we have a true win-win. So, if you think about EUR100,000 invested through this into
Allianz, we have 2 times beneﬁts for the clients because they get a better product in the
life side, a better asset management product inside of it. And we make the margin twice
because we make it on the life product. And as long as we perform, of course, also in
asset management. No other competitor can do it the way we can do that and I think that
is totally under appreciated in terms of earnings power and earnings resilience. And also,
the way we can be ﬂexible.
Now, we talked about the transformation of the U.S. life business. I don't think it's fully
understood yet. I would just like to mention that Allianz Life of America is one of the best
businesses we have and somebody here in Europe suggested we sort of think about a run
oﬀ the opposite is true. We are trying to use this transaction, not just to drive proﬁtability.

Page 5 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

But massively increase growth, because this new access to other sources of capital allows
us to be more competitive in many areas. I think I have a call coming in between.

Operator

FINAL

Sorry for that.

Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Maybe it's Giulio's colleagues. So they are very happy. So what is really, really important.
And by the way, Allianz Life of America was in absolute terms. The biggest capital
consumer in the group and now we have been able to lift EUR3.6 billion out 9% of
solvency. So that also means that we are able to withstand special requirements like on
Structured Alpha unabated our solvency ratio was 209 after Structured Alpha is super
strong.

Bloomberg Transcript

And by the way, volatility of Solvency II numbers are also going to continue to go down.
And that's another thing I'd like to mention. 2022 is an extremely important year for us
because for the ﬁrst time, our strongly growing new business value is so large that we do
not consume net new capital, for our new business. We've been working on that for a
number of years. Giulio myself and others in order to make sure we make our new
business capital light but because of what happened in the past it was declining interest
rates artiﬁcially drawn it was delayed about two years as of this year, we are going to have
net capital generation, even out of our new business at least no new capital strain out of
the new life business and this is a watershed moment for us.
So in addition to the work we're doing on the enforce, our life business will move much
more quickly in creating a lot more value than in the past. Now, one thing I wanted to
mention is this one, we didn't have that in the capital markets day, but given the current
environment. I wanted to talk about that for a few minutes before I go back to numbers
the most important thing that we are thinking about every day and now is, how do you
think about tail risk a lot of the models, including the one that we employees think about
diversiﬁcation as I said this morning, with Mr.Talib, that's the thing that is never there when
you need it.
And the point I'm trying to make is this is not about mathematical models and capital
requirements, this is about the front line of the business constantly thinking about what
our exposures to our business. In the past, it used to be purely ﬁnancial risk, like what is
our interest rate exposure, what is our equity exposure, what is our NatCat exposure. I
think that makes it, and a lot of people are talking about it now. We have worked
extensively also learning from COVID on understanding. We need to simplify and
particularly manage tail risk. So, reputation risk is super important as is cyber, as our sales
practices. So, we are focusing along the value chain from sales and underwriting through
the enforce and operations IT turning every stone and trying to ﬁnd out whether we are
having risk that we were not aware of and we -- how do we contain them and eliminate
them. Now, there will always be risk in ﬁnancial institutions. We have to however make
sure we get the risks out that are not consumer it without risk appetite. And the ones that

Page 6 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

we deem consumers, we need to make sure we get paid for properly or we get out of
them. So there has been a lot of improvements.
Let's think about AGCNS, everybody talks about the combined ratio, that's one very
important aspect. But the volatility of the earnings is another very important measure and
the team around Joe, Clamarine[ph] and everybody has worked diligently to massively
reduce the volatility of the expected proﬁt. Not just improve the proﬁtability, and we're
trying to do this for each and every business.
Now conﬁdence. Here is a really interesting chart, that's A14 that shows you the operating
proﬁt development over the last few years. And now you see how we are really driving the
operating earnings up EUR13.4 this year. Now people ask, why is the outlook still EUR1
billion. Again, we live in a very volatile world and it's just a much higher level. When we
established the EUR500 million range that was -- I was the CFO 2012. We were at a much
lower level of proﬁtability than we are today. So, there's just an order of magnitude eﬀect
that's inside there, and we want to grow EPS by 5% to 7% over the next two years getting
to north of EUR14.5 billion OP by the year 2024.
At least. So that's what we're going to do. And because we are so conﬁdent. We have
revised as you know our dividend policy. We want to grow the dividends per share at
least 5% every year or have a 50% payout. I should have started with that. So we are
keeping the ratchet plus bringing it up because we know that is what really drives
valuation is the growth of the dividends. And we are very optimistic about that. And as I
said before, we have zero interest to sit on excess capital. If and when we can invest in the
organic growth of our business proﬁtably, we can do highly proﬁtable investments
inorganically, we are going to go out and give the money back.
By the way, let me reiterate we have no appetite for super large M&A. We maintain a
string of pearls acquisition strategy in order to make sure we strengthen our market
positions across markets. Think about what we've been able to do in United Kingdom, in
Poland or take me -- let me give you the last one, which is Greece. It looks like a small
thing, but with this acquisition, which is just a little bit over EUR200 million, we are
becoming the number one property casualty insurer in Greece. So, getting to scale that
we really need and the number of number one, or number two position that Allianz has in
our industry is constantly growing and that's what we're trying to do. So I do thank you for
your trust and your support and then now Giulio, in the usual quality will give you all the
details.
Thank you, Oliver and good afternoon or good morning to everybody and as Oliver said
before 2021, underlying performance has been very, very strong. You can see this
reﬂected in several KPIs and revenue were up 6% and this is driven by all segments when
you look at the operating proﬁt EUR13.4 billion operating proﬁt which is signiﬁcantly
higher than the level of 2020. Clearly in 2020, we had impact coming from COVID but
even if you adjust the numbers for that, we have a double-digit increase in operating
proﬁt in 2021 versus 2020. All segments have at least achieved the outlook that we gave
our self for 2021. And when you look at the property casualty side, you see, a combination
93.8%, which is higher than the target of 93%. But, as you see, also, the NatCat load was
deﬁnitely more signiﬁcant than the normal expectation.
Page 7 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

On the other side a capital investment income has been exceeding our expectations.
That's the reason why we were able to overachieve the outlook of EUR5.6 billion with an
operating proﬁt of EUR5.7 billion for property casualty.
The life segment has also developed very nicely with an operating proﬁt of EUR5 billion.
And then you can also see a very strong development of the value of new business and of
the new business margin and then in asset management also very strong results with an
operating proﬁt of EUR3.5 billion, a strong reduction of the cost income ratio is also very
positive ﬂow. So from an underlying performance, really good delivery. And then when
you look at the shareholder net income here, you see EUR6.6 billion of net income.
Clearly that's the consequence of the after tax charge of EUR2.8 billion that we talk
because of the Structured Alpha matter, this side still capable to achieve a double-digit
ROE despite this signiﬁcant impact.

Bloomberg Transcript

When we move to the Page 5, you can see that also the quarter was pretty strong on a
underlying basis so EUR3.5 billion of operating proﬁt and all segments, has a very strong
delivery. I'm sure you're going to ask me about the 93.5 combined ratio in a property
casualty because considering the lower NatCat load one might have expected a better,
combined ratio. I can tell you right away. They will being conservative on booking that's
combined ratio also because we want to be well prepared for potential increase inﬂation
as we go into 2021. So we are very we're feeling good about the quality of the asset
combined ratio. And then for the other segments, again a very strong quarter conﬁrming
the tendency that we saw during the course of 2021.
Clearly, you see a net loss for the quarter. That's just a consequence of the aftertaste arch
that I will talk. So overall it's strong underlying performance for 2021 with a strong ﬁnish
from an underlying point of view. And you can see the strength also overall reﬂect at Page
B7 for the solvency ratio, which is at 209%. So, increased compared to the level of 2007
and 2020 and this despite having taken a charge of 9 percentage points because of
Structured Alpha. If you consider also for the buyback that we announced yesterday. The
pro forma capitalization is 206%. So a strong labor or solvency ratio.
And when you look at the development of the solvency ratio and the driver for the
solvency ratio, you can see that in 2021, we had a strong organic capital generation of
about 30% pretax and if you do after tax and after dividend, you get to a double-digit
increase in capital generation. And what is very important, when you look at the ACR
contribution, this is all coming from property casualty. So there is basically no contribution
to the ACR coming from the life business, which means on the ACR, there is even ﬂight
from the life business and then you can see what is the contribution on the owned fans
coming from the life business, which is about EUR5 billion pre-tax and pre-dividend.
So fundamental is the life business is becoming accreted to our solvency ratio
development.
The market conditions have been also positive and then under capital management,
management action, you see an impact of 14 percentage point. I wouldn't call it a
negative impact because that's the dividend. And also the buyback that we did in 2021

Page 8 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

and then there are other elements that are ﬂowing to that number one is 11 percentage
point of improvement because of the back-book transaction that we did and clearly the
transaction the United States at the majority of the impact, but we did also other
transaction in Europe so in total 11 percentage point of improvement to the solvency ratio
because of back-book management, and then of these 11 percentage point we have
redeployed 9 percentage point in acquisition, which is clearly future growth.
So as you see strong capital management, also deployment of capital and then in tax
other you see the impact of taxes as always and then clearly that's also where you see the
9 percentage point of impact coming from structure there so overall strong, solvency
ratio, when you look at our sensitivity, they are pretty stable indeed slightly reduced
compared to the sensitivity that we had a year ago or last quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now coming to the next Page B11. We want to show to you also some KPIs for the ESG
delivery. These are also the KPIs for the activities where we gave ourselves targets. And as
you see, we are well on track to achieve our targets. We need also to say that 2021 has
been positively aﬀected by the COVID situation. So somehow we need to normalize those
numbers, but fundamentally you can see that there is a strong movement in the right
direction. We are conﬁdent that we're going to achieve our targets for 2024, '25 and 2023
respectively. So, all in all, strong underlying delivery. Solvency cabinet position very
strong. And also as you see, we are very committed to delivery also on the ESG topics.
Now at Page 13 on the internal growth and for the P&C segments, you see that we
achieved a good growth rate of 4% for the year. And I don't know If you remember, but in
the ﬁrst quarter, our growth in P&C was negative. So, you can see there was a good
momentum in the course of 2021. And when you look at the performance by companies,
you see that the majority of the companies is growing. There are a couple of exceptions.
Usually these exceptions are driven either by competition in motor or by our activities
improving, especially on the commercial mid-corp business.
What is also to highlight is the performance of Allianz partners. You can see deﬁnitely that
there is a stabilization of the revenue and clearly 2020 was very much aﬀected by COVID.
I wouldn't say that we're back to normal because the travel business is now back to
normal, but there was at least a recovery compared to what we saw in 2020. Price
environment is stable overall. So this means that the pricing, the prices that we get at the
moment are keeping pace with inﬂation. I'm sure I am going to get questions from you on
this topic, so I'll leave that for the Q&A later.
Now coming to the operating proﬁt. And as you see EUR1.4 billion of improvement
operating proﬁt, EUR1.1 billion of improvement is due to the fact that we didn't had the
repeat or the negative impacts from COVID of 2020. But there is still an underlying
improvement, if you want over EUR300 million. When you look at the combined ratio
here, can tell you that on the one side. We beneﬁted from the fact that COVID did a
repeat.
On the other side. The NatCat have been clearly negative compared to last year. There
are enough results. You can see a normalization to what would be more an expected

Page 9 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

level. And then we had about 30 basis points, of underlying improvement.
Another way to look at the combined ratio is to normalize the 93.8% for the extra NatCat
load or if you do that, you get back to the 93% of combined ratio that we have given our
self as a target for 2021. And that's also the starting point for our trajectory to combined
ratio 92% in 2024, so overall I would say a good delivery on the underwriting results and
when we just look at the delivery by, weeks at Page 17, you can see good combined ratio
in Germany also considering the amount of NatCats also good performance according to
our expectation in United Kingdom, France, Italy, Australia has also had a good year and
then you can see also very strong performance in Eastern Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Latin America we had some opportunity for improvement as we go into 2022 and 2023
and then I would say what is statement is the performance of AGCNS with 97.5 combined
ratio, our target was 98% for 2021. And I can also tell you that the underlying performance
of AGCNS is strong at the 97.5% that you see on this page. So, there is really some quality
in these numbers. And then Euler Hermes you see also with a very good combined ratio.
So, you can see that a lot of our entities are performing at a good level. And then on the
investment results at Page 19, you see that the investment result is up. So, it's not down as
we were seeing in the past.
And the reason for that is especially the recovery of performance in -- on the equity side.
Clearly last year, the amount of the dividend out of public equity and also private equity
was lower compared to the normalization distribution that we saw in 2021. So
fundamentally, good delivery on the operating investment results. And as I was saying
before, this is oﬀset if you want the higher NatCat's load at least relative to our
expectation. This explains why we ended up with EUR5.7 billion of operating proﬁt, which
is better compared to the outlook of EUR5.6 billion.
Now coming to the life segment. I can tell you I'm very pleased about the performance of
the life segment. At Page 21, I remember that at the end of 2020, we had a lot of
conversation about changing the mix. And one of the questions we were getting is can
you change the mix and still keep the production going? And as you see, we are being
capable to achieve a very healthy level of production. When you look at the numbers here
you see a growth rate of 30%. Obviously here, there are some one oﬀ to be considered.
But even if you adjust for the one-oﬀs, the growth rate of our production was above
double digit.
So from that point of view, strong commercial delivery and this by change in the mix and
achieving a new business margin of over 3%. So I can tell you the delivery is being very
strong and very consistent across all our entities.
Now, looking at Page 23 of the operating proﬁt. You can see a nice increase of the
operating proﬁt compared to 2020 of about EUR650 million. And you can see that all
proﬁt sources contributed to this increase, you can see the improvement coming from the
loading fees, from the investment margin, from the technical margin. And then as always,
when you look at the expenses, you need to knit them together with the impact of change
in that so obviously the primary drivers have been driving the performance of the life

Page 10 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

segment. And then when you look at the operating proﬁt by line, you see also that all
lines have contributed to the strong delivery in operating proﬁt.
To Page 25. On the value of new business, you can see a strong increase the value of new
business of 45% with a value of new business 2.5 that's a very good number. And I don't
know if you remember, but three years ago, we said we want to grow value of new
business by 5%. And despite very challenging market conditions compared to the market
condition that one could foresee in 2018, despite this more challenging condition we
have been able to achieve a 5% compounded average growth rate of our value in new
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

New business margin is also very strong, it's over 3% and pretty stable across all entities
which is indeed, a tendency to an improvement and then on the operating proﬁt, I like
clearly to highlight the performance in the United States with an increase in operating
proﬁt of 50%, here we have to say, 2020 was a little bit weaker because of the impact to
the volatility in the ﬁrst quarter 2020 and 2021 has been very, very strong because the
volatility in the United States or the -- has being very, very nice. So you have a sort of
swing from a softer performance to a win performance, which is also in this signiﬁcantly
higher than our expectation. And then another area where we had very good results is
Italy with an operating proﬁt of EUR450 million. Italy is the ﬁrst country. One of the ﬁrst
country that embraced the journey to capitalize product, and selling unit length that you
can see that now, this journey is delivering over EUR400 million of operating proﬁt. So
strong delivery, also from our Italian team.
And now at Page 27 on the investment margin, you can see that the current yield is going
up by about 10 basis point. And that's because of the normalization of income coming
from, especially from equity, but what is more important you see, once again, that we are
taking down the minimum guarantee, in this case by about 10 basis points. You can be
assured that this churn is going to continue. So from that point of view, you can see
deﬁnitely that there is a reduction of the guarantee level. So from that point of view, we
are very conﬁdent that we're going to be able to keep the spread between a current yield
and minimum guarantee as we move into the next year.
So overall, strong performance in the life business, stronger operating proﬁt, strong new
business value generational change in mix, we also did a couple of back-book
transactions. I would even a benchmark transaction like the one we did in the United
States. So I will say great, great year for our life segment and for our franchise in this area.
Now coming to asset management, overall EUR2.6 trillion of assets under management,
including the proprietary assets and when you narrow down on the third party assets
EUR2 billion -- EUR2 trillion of third-party assets with a growth of 15%. And when you look
at the growth, across the asset classes and regions, you can see that all regions and all
asset classes are showing growth. So there's for me a sign of quality and also of sort of
diversiﬁcation that we have.
We see a similar trend by the way, on Page 31. When we look at the right hand side. You
can see that how is the composition of the EUR110 billion of inﬂows that will got and you

Page 11 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

can also see here that we are not just growing ﬁxed income and it was positive ﬂows in all
other asset classes and also from a geographical point of view, you can see a nice -- a nice
spread across the diﬀerent region. Also, we are kind of used to PIMCO, making EUR60
billion of inﬂows. I think the big nose is clearly AGI making over EUR40 billion of the
inﬂows. And as Oliver was saying before, this despite challenges and also despite the fact
that these guys just in 2020 did a major restructuring. And usually, when you have a major
restructure, you might not necessarily expect a signiﬁcant growth. AGI has been capable
to do both, do a restructure and then also realize signiﬁcant growth.
When you look at what this means from a revenue point of view, you can see the nice
development of the revenue with a growth of 14% and the growth is especially
pronounced at AGI. You can also see stable fee margin in total. So that's also important,
we don't see necessarily trajectory of a weakening of the fee margin, we saw a lot of
stability indeed over the last quarters.

Bloomberg Transcript

All these leads at Page 35 to an increase in operating proﬁt of over 20%. Also, when we
adjust for the so-called volatile items which are the performance fees. We still see about
20% increase in operating proﬁts, so very strong performance. And then clearly what is
really nice is also the development or the cost income ratio, at AGI with an improvement
of 8 percentage points, so strong delivery in asset management, strong delivery from
PIMCO, and I will say very strong delivery from AGI. Corporate I'm going to skip it, it's
basically ﬂat compared to the level of last year.
And now we come to Page 39 on the non operating items here you see that the realized
gains have been more pronounced than in the past. This has to do also with the Lucy
transaction about 1/3 of the realized gains are coming from Lucy. And then also, you can
see the level of impairment was in 2021 very low and then in other you see, basically the
pre-tax charge of Structured Alpha. They are you see also some deck, some deck of sets
to the realize gains on the Lucy transaction and then, when you put it all together, you get
to a net income of EUR6.6 billion for the year, which to leads to a double digit ROE
anyway, so I'd like to reiterate this message that it's still double digit ROE despite a
signiﬁcant one oﬀ impact.
And now we can to the outlook at Page 41, overall EUR13.4 billion for an outlook for 2022
as you might have recognized by now we have a tendency also to set the outlook at the
label, of the preceding period. So we keep, faithful to this kind of tradition, the underlying
assumption here on P&C for the EUR6 billion of operating proﬁt. We are assuming a 93%
of combined ratio and we have a tendency to be fairly conservative on the investment
income on the right side, we have normalized for the extraordinary performance due to
the low weeks of Allianz Life. So we did some normalization there and for asset
management, if you will also design normalization if you want for the performance fee
level which was a little bit more elevated in 2021 compared to what is an average over
overtime.
But again, with the EUR13.4 billion outlook for 2022, we feel pretty conﬁdent about this
level we are going to have clearly conversation about where we stand in the course of the
year.

Page 12 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

And with that, I would like to open up to your questions.

FINAL

Operator
Yes, think you Giulio and as he said, we are now happy to take your questions. Before we
start the Q&A session, I would like to ask you one favor. If you join us via telephone,
please mute your YouTube live stream while you're on the air because this avoids a
potential echo.
All right, and that said, we will now take our ﬁrst question from Peter Elliot. Go ahead
Peter.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Question And Answer

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, thank you Giulio and as we've said, we are now happy to take your questions. Before
we start the Q&A session, I would like to ask you one favor. If you join us via telephone,
please mute your YouTube live stream while you're on the air because this avoids a
potential echo.
All right, and that said, we will now take our ﬁrst question from Peter Eliot. Go ahead
Peter.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Hopefully, you can hear me? So, I had three questions, please. The
ﬁrst one was on the share buyback and just wondering if you can share any timing, you
have in mind of that, so do you have an end date in mind. For example, for that 1 billion.
The second question was, at the Capital Markets Day, you targeted 4% growth to get to
sort of 14.5 billion operating proﬁt. And obviously, from the starting point which is a bit
higher than new, indicated at the time, we need to return a 0.5% growth.
I mean, we probably used back-up performance fees, but would it be safe to say that the
starting point is a bit higher than you're expecting and therefore, the target more
achievable? And then ﬁnally third question. Just wondering on your non-life businesses,
which may be a getting the most management attention at the moment. I mean, I guess
Turkey was a high combined ratio and you're pointing to diﬃcult markets. Is that perhaps
the main focus at the moment or maybe just some insight on where you think there is still
room for improvement? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Hi, Peter. I can take your questions. On the share buyback, the expectation is that we are
going to complete this share buyback by the summertime. So, that's the timeline for the 1

Page 13 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

billion buyback. On the capital market day and baseline, but ﬁrst of all because you're
coming where we think that the target is more achievable, we think the target is
achievable, so our message in the Capital Market Day, was that's a plan, that's not an
ambition. Now, if we want to talk about the baseline, in the Capital Market Day, we also
said, look $13 billion was the basis, how we did the presentation.
We also said, we expect to be a little bit higher than $13 billion, so from that point of view,
I would say nothing has really changed, clearly compared to what we know at December,
3rd and what we know now. So the point is again, the conﬁdence that we have about
achieving our targets in 2024 is stronger, didn't change because of six weeks.
And then on Turkey, ﬁrst of all, let me say that Turkey, yes, the combined ratio is high, but
the investment income is also very high. So if you look at the numbers of Turkey in reality,
in local currency, Turkey had a growth in operating proﬁt and we are speaking anyway of
an RoE which is north of 20%. And now we can have a philosophical conversation about
what the cost of capital in Turkey should be. But I can just tell you that the company is
operationally doing very, very well.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now clearly we will have to go through a time of uncertainty because of the situation
there. But Turkey is not a company that we see it struggling, we see Turkey as a, as a
strong company, delivering also a good performance for the environment. So that's not
an area of concern. In general if you ask me, what are the area of focus, clearly, we are
focused on bringing the combined ratio down from the 93% normalized to 92%.
And as we discuss also in the past, one area of focus is clearly the improvement in
MidCorp. And then we want also to make sure clearly that we are preserving the
proﬁtability in retail, and also that we might see more growth -- even more growth in
retail. On the light side, the message is we want to continue what we are doing, because
we think the strategy is paying oﬀ very nicely as you have seen our numbers and for asset
management.
I will say also you see the delivery in 2021 is being very consistent quarter-over-quarter.
So, we are very positive on the franchise. And then as always, if rates go up and down, this
can create some short-term volatility, but the franchise is very strong and I would say
never been stronger at PIMCO/AllianzGI as it is now.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Right. Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
Thanks, Peter. And we'll take the next question from Will Hardcastle of UBS. Go ahead
Will.
Page 14 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 22230376 <GO>}

Afternoon, everyone. Thanks for the question. Let me state the question. So ﬁrst of all, I
mean you called it there's going to be a question on inﬂation. So I'll ask it, but just
thinking about how it's impacting the P/C business and you mentioned, you'd held
something back on the actual end year booking, what about unreserved? Anything
happened there? And which lines should we be concerned or just being on a watch list?
Or are we just talking about a general provision at this stage? And the second one is it
regarding the provision today the Structured Alpha, I guess you mentioned the vast
majority of investors are being made whole can you just explain to me what isn't included
in this provision -- and the potential where incremental costs can arise hopefully that's
able to be answered obviously, without any numbers, but just what could still arise?
Thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I can pick up these questions on the stats of the Alpha we cannot give you more
information. We can just tell you that the provision includes more than the settlement, we
achieved with the major with the major investors, but we cannot give you more
information. One day when this story is going to be behind us we will be able to give you
all the information, you wish. But I think you can appreciate that we made, we are keeping
true to what we say. We say we want to put some numbers around this topic by the end of
the year and that's what we are doing. We try to get to a resolution in a fast way but in a
considerate way, so that's what I think you can see that we are doing exactly what we said
that we are going to do but that's all for Structured Alpha for the time being.
On the inﬂation side. I tell you when we look at the inﬂation in a property casualty, ﬁrst, I
can tell you that, as of now, we don't see inﬂation which is running faster than what we
have in our pricing. And trust me. We are having a lot of conversations with our OEs. So
we have been indeed looking at the inﬂation already starting next year. So it's not been
something that we put on watch at the end of 2021 beginning of 2022. We start watching
inﬂation already basically, I would say, during the summer of last year, we put this on our
agenda. When we look at the trend, anyway, I can tell you that we see some more inﬂation
on spare parts, but for the time being nothing really gigantic, but there is deﬁnitely some
inﬂation in spare parts.
But just to give you also an idea, when you have a material damage, about 40% of the -of the damage is going to be spare parts. The rest is still labor, or could be also painting
or this kind of thing. So, from that point of view, don't think that if you have any inﬂation,
which is running high single-digit on the spare parts, you can assume this is going to be a
high single-digit inﬂation of the total claim. And then a lot of our claims are bodily injury.
We don't see pressure on bodily injury. And then as always the answer is going to be
diﬀerent country by country.
So we see some clearly pickup of inﬂation. Also in property to a certain degree, but for
the time being, I will say that's all within our expectation, we are clearly monitoring the
situation very carefully and if we -- the message that we sent to our OEs is, if you see an
increase in severity because that's the way we talk. You have many things ﬂowing into the

Page 15 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

severity if you see an increase in severity instead of wondering whether there's noise, you
just assume that there's inﬂation and the react as fast as possible.
The reaction by the way is not necessarily just on pricing because, we always think that the
way to oﬀset something bad is pricing. There are other levers that we can pull in order to
mitigate inﬂation. So we are spending a lot of time on steering. You might also remember
that we put a lot of eﬀort on claims already, in the course of 2021 indeed. That's one of the
top priority of Oliver, how we even improved further in eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency in
claim.
So, our reaction and the plan that we have is not just let's put rate increases, but also how
we work on the claim side to minimize, the impact of inﬂation.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 22230376 <GO>}

Just a quick follow-up. I mean, it doesn't sound like that. The action being taken is you
know awareness on the front end on -- and actions taken on claims management as
opposed to looking further behind and thinking about the reserves. Is that fair?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. Sorry. Yeah, okay. Oliver is there, I can tell you that also, this part of the component
absolutely, then is going to be diﬀerent country by country. But in some -- in some
countries, where you can see also the competitive environment is very -- is very tough.
One thing that we did was also to make sure that we have a healthy level of reserve,
because we know that we're going to see some increase in claims and so we will need to
use some additional reserve strength to set that. So deﬁnitely, we looked also at
increasing -- putting buﬀer speciﬁc for inﬂation. So, that's what we did and I can tell you
it's not a small buﬀer. So, it's an appropriate buﬀer that you want to put in a situation like
this.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 22230376 <GO>}

Okay, thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe I can just make an additional comment, otherwise I'll get bored. I think one of
the reporting things that we don't do is when you look at premium growth or price
increase, that is just half of the story, particularly in commercial lines. What we would
normally have to report in the future, at some point is exposure adjusted price increases.
So a lot of the things we've done in commercial lines over the last two years and not just
AGCS also in MidCorp is to completely change the exposures. So whether that's terms
and conditions, deductibles exposures to highly exposed sectors, in the property side,

Page 16 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

particularly we have been mandating cancellations of the high exposure risk, even for
risks that haven't seen a claims in the last ﬁve years. If the technical price to actual price is
not consumer rate, we are reducing, have been reducing exposure. So if you were to
equalize the growth numbers understating really the pricing strength that we have been
gathering in commercial lines and hope we will come see that coming through the results
over the next few months and years.

Operator
Thanks, Oliver. Okay, we will now take our next question from Michael Huttner from
Berenberg. Michael, go ahead please.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you so much and well done for the hard work. It's -- and I have two questions. And
in a funny way, they're not -- on the back page and I think B-47, you show your cash ﬂows
and you did. So the total ﬁgures but now we see the detail and non-life seems to deliver
less and less cash ﬂow every year. It seems to be at a record low level of 2.6 billion for
2021. Just wanted if you could explain a little bit what's happening here and maybe what
the outlook could be. And my second question and I think you alluded -- wasn't being the
-- shows in -- oﬀshores or whatever in January in sequential businesses. And then the last
one on non-life reserves. So I was looking at the SFCR and the excess reserves, which
included -- to best estimates have been coming down and I just wondered if the actions
you've taken so to, to add to reserve to aﬀect inﬂation et cetera, would that actually lead
to a higher number here or does it stay hidden. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes. I can take this question. Starting from the last one, we don't have in this -- SCR report,
any indication based estimates versus non-best estimates. So there is, I'm not so sure,
what numbers are you looking at. But there is not an information that we provide. I can tell
you, anyway, that's the deﬁnitely the margin didn't go down in 2021, compared to what
we had seen in the preceding period.
But yes, I think you're now looking at the and you're not interpreting dynamic, whatever
you are looking at in the right way, but I'm sure that Oliver can help you with that. On the
ﬂows for PIMCO GI in January, we had 3 billion ﬂows in combined and more or less half,
half between a GI and PIMCO. I want also to say if rates go up, we might see clearly
someone, negative ﬂows at the beginning might happen. This is still a positive anyway for
GI and especially for PIMCO because, every time we asked mainly the CEO of PIMCO,
you like to have rates going up or down, it's going to go for rates up even knowing that in
the short term, this is not necessarily a positive, but when you look at the midterm, you
don't need to look long term. Just look at the mid-term, that would be deﬁnitely a
positive.
So, if you think in present value of revenue and proﬁt, deﬁnitely higher rates, not a
negative for asset management. If you focus on a quarter, that's a diﬀerent story. But I
think the right way to look at that is a little bit of a present value instead of a quarter. And
then on the cash ﬂow, okay, what you have to consider is in 2021. Clearly, there was an
Page 17 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

impact of COVID on the P&C side. So, we got a little bit less than for example from Allianz
Germany last year, because in 2021, because of the 2020 impacts, but also then consider
that especially where we have composite insurance companies, which is can be the case
also in Italy, in France also that's the way we look at the business. We can get dividend,
excess capital from one entity or the other depending on the situation.
So fundamentally, I will not look at the segment. You should at least combine property
casualty and life together and that would be maybe a best way to look at that.
Fundamentally overtime in property casualty. We would expect the remittances to be
about 80% of the net income that should be, depending on the growth rate, but they
should be deﬁnitely a baseline. If not higher for the proﬁt that you put the dividend that
we get out of the property casualty side. Hope this helps.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you so much.

Operator
Sorry.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. That is wonderful.

Operator
Yeah, thanks Michael. By the way there was three questions not just two. But anyway -- no
problem, I'm just joking. We will take the next question from Ashik Musaddi from Morgan
Stanley. Please go ahead Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you and good afternoon, everyone. Just a couple of questions I have is. First of all, I
mean, can you give some color as to how this 1 billion buyback has been achieved, how
did you get to this 1 billion number? I mean historically, half-yearly was kind of 750, full
year was like 1.5 billion. So how do we get to this 1 billion number and just linked to that, I
mean would you say that, that this Structured Alpha fund or and/or discussion with the
regulator is playing a part in this coming at this 1 billion number. In terms of ﬁrst one
would be very helpful.
Secondly, there was a strong premium progression in the P&C business in fourth quarter,
which is what we saw like in third quarter as well, but would you say it is just a base eﬀect
or would you say that there is some movement from your side to start getting a bit more
on the top line as well. So that would be the second question. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Page 18 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

So maybe starting from the buyback, we thought that, we have basically 4.4 billion of
dividend and when you add another billion of buyback, we are at 5.4 billion of
deployment, then we want to see what happens during the year. So we didn't necessarily
over think, whether it should be 1 billion, 1.5 billion. We just felt that, to start with this
amount and then to see how this situation is going to evolve and then we take further
decisions as we go into the second part of the year. But don't think that there is a lot of
overthinking, about whether they should be a little bit higher or not. On the point about
the growth that we see coming clearly, we had some strong growth in the fourth quarter,
you can also see, in reality if you look at the analytics that some of the growth has been
driven by AGCNS partners was very strong and also Euler Hermes, so but even if you
adjust for the Global lines, you see about 7% growth rate.
Now there is a thing that you need to consider, this is also growth rate compared to the
four quarter 2020 and if you look at the trajectory in 2020 clearly to you have a situation
where we got into COVID in Q2, and then there was going down Q3, Q4, was still a lot a
lockdowns and then Q1 2021 was still pretty down, and then you still you see a recovery.
So, thinking about the sort of concavity, so that's the reason why you're going to see a
growth rate which is a little bit more pronounced than normal. This said, if you ask me the
expectation for 2022, is a growth rate of I would say 4%. Let's say 3%, there will be low to
be honest, but you never know what the environment might be. And we might go all the
way to 5% depending on how the economy is going to evolve. So, we'll say a range
between 3% and 5%. And my pick is about 4% growth for 2022.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
All right. Thanks, Ashik. And we will take the next question from Andrew Ritchie,
Autonomous. Andrew, please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hello, hi there. First question, just on the cost income ratio on the asset management
business. Do you, could you just tell us, is there any investment to occur, also, where of
some insulation and staﬀ costs, most of the eight, most of the listed asset managers, have
been guiding to higher cost income ratios in 2022, to reﬂect that. Could you just give us
some sense of that, but also could you remind us of the ﬂex on the cost base of asset
management in the event that assets are lower given market movements.
I think in the past you said it's like a 60/40 ﬁxed variable, but could you just remind us on
that. I'm just trying to sense what the ﬂex is. Should the asset, should the environment be
trickier. The second question; the movement interest rates had in the past called volatility,
ticking the German life investment spread as interest rates rise. I think you have some
Page 19 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

interest rate swaps that get negatively marked. Could you remind us what the volatility
could be as interest rates rise to the investment margin? And then the ﬁnal question, is
just a broader question for Oliver maybe. I think, you said, you'd learned lessons from
Structured Alpha. In particular, that you had precipitated as sort of thorough review of
products sales practices, all that kind of -- those kind of issues.
Is that really completed? Have you really done that in depth across the group in what's
been a relatively short time? Or is it still work in progress? Thanks.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Andrew, the issue is a formal answer now. We've done a lot of things, but until the U.S.
authorities have issued their statement of facts as they call it, I think you know that we are
not allowed to comment anything also an internal investigation and the outcomes but rest
assured, we've been relentlessly. By the way, I would also like to remind everybody, we
actually did completely change the top management team of AGI at the end of '19. And
we started before the ﬁnancial ﬂash crash to work on massively simplifying.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it's a bit unfortunate for the team at AGI and I like to express that, that what happened,
happened. So we did say right before that we want to reduce number of products and
strategies by more than 40% and we have done a lot of that heavy lifting already. You see
that in the cost to income ratio by the way. So complexity has been reduced, productivity
has been increased and this is ongoing and we do that across our universe now, and
consistently and it starts with a question of what products do we really want to oﬀer
relative to the risk return proﬁle, that we feel comfortable with.
So, the ﬁrst question is, do we need to be in certain products, really, even if they are
attractive and the second one question is, how do we then look beyond models risk
model, Solvency II which true risks lie regardless of capital charges and how do we -- how
do we deal them with them. And again, not by adding, safeguarding functions on all
kinds of protocols, but really aligning incentives, selecting the right people, and things
like that.
But again details, we can discuss if and when we have addressed that with U.S. authorities
and I beg for your understanding, really that we discuss it in depth. Once we have done
that hopefully soon. But the ﬁrst major milestone we have done, I'd like to reiterate,
because of spin not well understood that we did not just intend but we have settled today
and early in the morning with the vast majority of the exposure in terms of investors. And
we have taken beyond that some caution also on beyond the investors on some of the
litigation fees, but that's as much as I can say today.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Perfect on the other questions on the questions regarding inﬂation for asset managers, I
can tell you that in the U.S. we see some wage inﬂation. So that's deﬁnitely the case, we
see these also in PIMCO, to a certain degree. PIMCO is basically a philosophy that the
cost to income ration should be below 60. So from that point of view, I don't take concern
that we're going to be able to stay below that level of cost to income ratio, but clearly you

Page 20 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

might not see the 57.4 that you saw in 2020-'21. So, there is some inﬂation that's more
pronounced in the United States as opposed to other geography.
On your questions regarding the marginal cost to income ratio, it is the reverse. So now
we have 60 PIMCO is more like 40. So at the end of the day, if we lose 100 of revenue, we
will say the proﬁt margin is to go down by about 60. So that's the way to think about how
we look at an impact all over revenue. What does this means after cost for our proﬁts. And
then you had a question on the swaps that we have. This is mainly indeed Allianz Leben.
And by the way, we are using hedge accounting to the extent, we can use hedge
accounting, but there is clearly some part of this these position that we cannot put
through a hedge accounting. I will tell you that this situation is in reality manageable
because yeah, if rates go up we're going to see a loss on the path, which is not on the
hedge accounting. But we have enough other levers that we can pull in order to get to
the desire operating proﬁt. We have a lot of buﬀer and we have -- participation too that
can be utilized in order to stabilize the proﬁt.
So reality, the only issue is if you have a spike of interest rates very ends of a quarter or
let's say of the year because in that case clearly, we cannot activate some of the labels that
we have at our disposal. But as long as we have time to react to an increase in interest
rates, we have things that we can put in place in order to stabilize the proﬁt at that the
targeted level.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
All right. Thanks, Andrew. And we will take the next question from William Hawkins. Go
ahead Will, please.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hello gentlemen, thank you very much. My ﬁrst question feels slightly redundant because
you've just published your business plan. But all of it, since you showed that Slide 12 to
focus on diversiﬁcation versus tail risk, I wondered whether you ever kind of reﬂect the
maybe reducing the footprint of Allianz could be a constructive way of reducing the tail
risk. Its eye-catching, that every so often, it's a tiny business that causes a disproportionate
amount of problems for Allianz.
Now you may just look at that and say well that's part of the cost of being a successful
diversiﬁed business, or it may just be the, if everyone is spread so thin, there's always
going to be something which is creating a bit of a headache. So the thing as you showed
that slide, I wondered if you can just talk about the temptation to reduce the footprint
overall.
Page 21 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

Then secondly, please, Giulio, I think it's now at least three years when you've been telling
us your investment margin is going to be about 75 basis points and ends up being about
85 basis points, which is lovely. But I'm kind of wondering why is it going to be 75 this
year? Can you just kind of help me understand why 75 is the magic number?
And also, does there come a point when if you've eﬀectively taken 30 basis points that
you didn't intend to take over the past three years, and the investor margin is ultimately a
zero sum game, are you just accelerating proﬁts, that means at some point that ﬁgure may
decline slightly more quickly. And then thirdly please, on that Slide B9 when you're
showing the Solvency walk, what do we think the SCR business evolution is going to be
this year. Is it -- presume it is going to be small in either direction, but is your SCR going to
be consuming capital or reducing capital in 2022, please. Thank you.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Well, very good question and something that we spend in terms of the portfolio, spend a
lot of time on. Actually, I tend to disagree because AGI is a super big business. It made
more than 900 million in proﬁt, 40% up by the way, had the largest ﬂows ever. Third
largest in the equity, so unfortunately, the issue is in there from a signiﬁcant business not
from a small one.

Bloomberg Transcript

The question is actually more around what we had before the question, also from Andrew.
What are the right products in elements to be in and are we comfortable with them under
severe stress scenarios right, something might work very, very well under sort of assumed
normal situation. But when a tail market event hits are we then still comfortable.
And the vast majority of our businesses are rock solid even under severe stress. Let's take
Turkey that we just had discussed earlier, many competitors, ﬁnd it completely impossible
to operate in this environment. We are the market leader and we're returning more than
20% RoE by the way in euros, and that is really important. So, what we need to do is
wherever we operate, we need to be a market leader. So the answer is, we need to get
out of businesses where we clearly are not the market leader and we cannot deliver bestin-class performance and that's what we do. That's why in '16 we went out of Korea
because after trying a long, long time, since 2001, we convinced ourselves, we couldn't
do that and that's why we're getting out. And again AGI pruned or is pruning 40% of its
portfolio in order to make sure that we're not just cost wise, but also exposure wise
getting to the things that we should be focusing on.
I have to tell you, I ﬁnd these focused strategies a bit a bit ridiculous, because in reality,
people sell a lot of their businesses that they don't know how to run, book an accounting
gain and then call that focus. And there is a very nice thing that nobody ever shrank to
greatness. We really believe that we can build scale and do that, but we don't do that by
buying large companies, we do again as I said, string of pearls. And we need to make all.
If we can get to leadership position in a certain period of time, we are going to exit. And
you will see that as we think about it, or we need to transform.
Let's talk about AZ Life. Everybody and their friend and mothers had to spend billions to
get into the U.S. Life Market in the 90s, and then in the middle of 2000s, they had to go
Page 22 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

home with their tail between their legs. We have built one of the most successful life
companies in the United States and people still said we don't like the exposure. And I
actually understand that given the size of the balance sheet and the capital consumption,
so we've now worked two years on, how do we leverage private market capital in the way
that gives us much better returns and much better growth. And that's what we're doing.
So we are transforming really the most capital consumptive, part of our business and
turning them into fee based businesses. Will there be volatility, absolutely, the issue is
more working, not on the small things that create the problem, but making sure that the
large ones AGCNS by the way, is also a large --are run with the same intensity and
diligence as everybody else, which means we need to move away from cross-subsidies. I
think the issue and the culture is more, we're doing so well that people can become
complacent. And that's the one thing we need to ﬁght, we need to be having the ﬁghting
spirit. We need to make sure that some people don't bet on the strength of the company.
And that is really the job for the next few years. Make sure that all cylinders ﬁre not just
eight or nine out of the 10.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, and on your question, maybe starting with the ﬁrst one which is on the investment
margin. First of all, I'm doing like the one that says the stock market is going to go down,
still keep always saying that hoping that one day is going to be right. So that should my
philosophy on this one. But seriously, I would say we might be slightly conservative
maybe in our guidance, but fundamentally that I have few issue why the investment
margins has been high in the last years compared to what we would expect.
This year or last year in 2021, deﬁnitely the volatility is being very low. I saw there's a push
in the investment margin because of low volatility coming from the United States. In the
case or 2020, what we put also in the investment margin in the case of Allianz Life is any
positive unlocking in VA, or also in FIA because they can aﬀect basically the line item that
goes into the investment margin. So, from that point of view, positive unlocking, and we
had positive unlocking, especially in 2020 in Allianz Life, they have a positive impact.
Technically speaking on this investment margin. So, from that point of view, I tell you 86 or
87 basis point is deﬁnitely not the investment margin that we expect on a normalized
level.
I would deﬁnitely say that the expectation is should be below 80. And now we can discuss
with 75 is maybe slightly on the conservative side, but I'm pretty conﬁdent that to
normalize expectation is below 80. Now one thing that you need to keep in mind. If you
do your math, you cannot assume that a reduction in the investment margin is one to one,
a reduction of the operating proﬁt because there is a deck of sets. So that's very important
every time you do your calculations or say okay, if Giulio tells me there is 10 basis points,
less of investment margin, you start doing your math and you say, this is one to one equal
to proﬁt. You can assume that there is about 30% of the echo sites on every reduction that
you do on the investment margin.
And that's how you can somehow get to a proxy of the operating proﬁt impact of
normalizing down this number. On your Solvency II, business evolution question I can tell
Page 23 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

you that from the life side we expect basically no contribution, from -- on the SCR because
right now, we see that the release of SCR coming from the in-force running out is in line
with the -- with what could be the increase in SCR coming from the new business. So from
that point of view, the expectation is basically, that we are going to see this also in the
future. If not, a even more pronounced, this kind of tendency to have even a release if you
want to slide release of SCR. And then the increase in SCR is going to come from property
casualty, and I can tell you that if you for -- we apply as a rule of thumb, you can apply
something about 30% to the NPE growth, and that is how you can somehow there to a
proxy of the increase in SCR.
So that then that's what you see also basically, now the numbers in 2021, is all driven by
NPE growth and if you assume something between 25% to 30% of ratio to NPE, you get a
good proxy of what the SCR might be doing. Is that helpful.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
All right.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Will, just on a facetious note, AIM has been exceeding our expectations with the shift to
alternative assets. That has really bolstered our returns. The old assets are substantially
more proﬁtable. By the way, not just on the life side, in terms of returns, but also in asset
management. However, they also tend to be more lumpy in return. So, the one thing and
we'll know that it's going to come from IFRS 17 II, is these things are bit more lumpy, and
that's why we are very cautious in terms of forecasting average numbers.
So, numbers will be risk-adjusted higher, but they may be a little bit more volatile.
Therefore, we'd rather be a bit more conservative as we tend to be.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
All right. We will take our next question from Vinit Malhotra. Vinit, please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, thanks for the opportunity. Just so very quickly one. One is on the target. So Giulio,
you mentioned about history, when I look at history, I mean except maybe the COVID year
2020, the actual have always been very close to the top end of the guidance. And now we
see 14.4 billion as the 2022 outlook upper limit. And that's so close to the 2024 target. I
mean could you just talk about scenarios where this could actually happen this year and
Page 24 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

then obviously then we have to think of higher target for 2024. So that's just the ﬁrst
question.
Second question is on the P&C The P&C in Spain MidCorp is being mentioned. Now from
just hearing many of the companies. It seems MidCorp has been the -- sort of attractive
business. Could you just talk about what happened there or and you mentioned
conservatism. Is that more conservatism or is there some issues you'd like to ﬂag on that
side.
And lastly, capital eﬃcient products in life, I think 415 million, is probably the highest
quarterly operating proﬁt, and in the past, maybe two years ago. I've asked you that you
are seeing a big -- change in the proﬁt numbers of capital eﬃcient products. Is that the
accounting eﬀect, or is it what we just heard from Oliver about how the asset
management is coming in and helping create more value. Thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So, the ﬁrst question was on the outlook, and how we go to the 14.4 billion. I would
not be focused too much on the 14.4 billion, because I will say to get to that level, we
should really have the opposite of the perfect storm like very low NetCat level, very strong
capital market. So, a good level performance fees, that's how we can get there. I will say
that, as you said before, we have a tendency to end up in the upper half of our outlook.
And yes, we will see what happens in 2022, but I think this could be more reasonable
expectation, suppose we go all the way up to 14.4, but clearly we see very benign market
condition, we see very lower NetCats that could push us clearly to a very high level, but
that would also be not necessarily what I will call a baseline. So that's on your comment
about the $14.4 billion what could bring us there. On, Spain on MidCorp the issue there
has been also large losses or clearly when we look at large losses, we always very cautious
because it's too easy to say large losses are just volatility and they're going to normalize a
way. That's the reason why we will clearly take a close look at the performance of that
book and anyway, we also put in rate increases there, so but fundamentally, the issue is
being in accumulation of large losses, but we don't take this necessarily as an explanation
to say everything is ﬁne. And in 2022, there will be no issue also, the motor performance
is good because there is clearly also, still a low frequency in Spain, but we are also kind of
prudent in this things. So we might see clearly it increasing in frequency of potential in
severity, as we go into 2022. So there was also some element of prudency on that space,
so there is little bit of prudency with respect to motor and then also large losses that have
aﬀected MidCorp business.
And the last question was in the capital eﬃcient products, what we have seen is there is
the combination of Allianz Life delivering very strong performance in ﬁxing this annuity
and also in the so-called RILA, which is the registered index life annuity, which is what has
replaced basically the OVA business. And also what we see is clearly the and we said
that's also in the past that there is a trajectory coming from Allianz Leben. In the past, you
didn't see much of a proﬁtability in that line of business coming from Allianz Leben
because due to the accounting, the way we do the accounting, there was a sort of strain
also under IFRS, the current IFRS. And now this strain is going away because the book has
Page 25 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

achieved clearly a diﬀerent size. So you can really -- if you want the growth in proﬁt is over
proportional compared to the growth of the assets under-management the business
because of these accounting issue. So you see maturity if you want.
Think of that, Allianz Leben capital-eﬃcient product was almost like a start-up. And now
after three, four years, clearly you see performance kicking in and also we are pushing this
capital eﬃcient products also in other markets. But the main driver of this performance
Allianz Life because of the strong delivery there and Allianz Leben because of the strong
delivery with this sort of embedded growth because of these accounting going -- going
down.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Right. Thanks very much Giulio.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you Vinit. So, the oﬃcial time for our call is over, but we still have a couple of
analysts in the queue, so we'll add a couple of minutes and try to get everybody into the
call. And we will take the next question from Kamran Hossain from JPMorgan. Go ahead,
Kamran.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Three questions. And the ﬁrst one is just you clearly
have generated good success in the U.S. on bad book deals. Can you maybe talk about
potential elsewhere, in group outside of the U.S. that there is potential of deals and
whether actually there's enough capital out there to kind of support those deals. The
second question is just on NetCat budget. Just -- could you give some kind of guidance
around how that has changed, or any to what extent, that's forward-looking? Well then
based on history. And the third question, I guess, you're one of the ﬁrst companies to
report that has a big UK motor business. Any thoughts on how the UK pricing practices
review has impacted the market yet. Thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah, maybe just tell you the last one. So on the UK, I think this situation is very ﬂuid. Let's
put it this way, what we understand from our -- so I don't have a deﬁnitive answer, let's put
it this way. But what I can tell you is the following, that we started January with the pricing
which was new business pricing, which was more conservative compared to what the
market was put-- put in the end, we saw that, the competition was more aggressive, so to
a certain degree we had to make some adjustment to price. Now we also believe that
there could be some movement in the other direction from the competition, but
fundamentally, it's a little bit too early to say, the only point that I can make is that we
started with a more conservative position than what our competitors in general has and
now we need to see how this situation is going to evolve and stabilize.
Page 26 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

So I think we can speak about this issue, when we add Q1 call I'm sure at that point I can
give you some good indication of what has happened because right now the situation is
still developing. On the NetCat, I just tell you the way we are thinking about NetCat and
maybe let me, that when we look at NetCat, internally, we look at NetCat and weatherrelated losses. So overall, in the past for the exam on NetCat, the weather related losses
we had a budget of about 3% of premium, and we moved this budget up already in the
last two years to about 3.2 percentage point to premium. And now we for 2022, the way I
look at that is 3.5 percentage point.
So I would say that compared to the situation of three, four years ago, we are 50 basis
points higher in the catalog once including weather-related, there we were at that time.
And now to give you also an idea, anyway, we have an aggregate in place. So I will say,
that if we see more NetCats that are including these 3.5 budget, I will say when we start
getting to 4.5 percentage point of load, that is the point where the aggregate should
come into place. So think about that, to combine budget of NetCat and weather-related
are 3.5% which is 50 basis points higher compared to what we had a couple of years ago.
And then I will say at 4.5%, we should be kept in terms of NetCats load because the
aggregate will come into place. That was clear?

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Yes thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay, perfect and then on the bad books, I think there is appetite there. Yes you saw
that's -- there are a lot of transaction happening also in the U.S., Sixth Street announced a
translation just after having done, the Lucy translation and they still have appetite to do
things, I just -- we have, there is appetite there. So, it's not a problem to ﬁnd buyers. And
from our standpoint, clearly, we are continuously looking at what our options are. And if
we -- if we believe that the way -- the above transactions that I wait to do -- to go we are
going to do so.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

I would like to make a point there. Giulio actually made this morning. I'm missing a little
bit energy today. So, I wanted to make the point. It's not just about selling books, this is
how the bankers see it. It's actually the last resort, if you don't know what to do, you need
to sell a business, there are many other levers.
Giulio mentioned the two examples today that I would like to repeat. First in Italy, on the
pension business, we have been renegotiating some pretty capital-intensive contracts in a
way that has provided massive capital relief. And we're continuing to do so. Actually, the
industry is picking this up now, so there may be more larger contracts also for us that are
changing. The other one is France where we are working very hard not just on the new
products that have three times the margins that we had just two years ago, but also
transforming the in-force, because they come with higher investment upside for our
consumers. And our sales force is actually super excited to provide an alternative to sort
of the lower margin products that came with the older text beneﬁts. And again, the

Page 27 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

regulators, they are very happy because we are providing more upside at much less
capital consumption.
So there is many levers there were pulling at the same side and people only look at sort
of, are you selling reserves. That is just one part of it. The second thing is, many of these
things take quite a while to prepare in order to get them really as a win-win. So for
example, on Switzerland, we've worked for two years and before we did the ﬁrst-ever
direct insurance in to Bermuda and also Lucy didn't come -- our project in the didn't come
overnight. We actually observed the market and we saw a massively growing interest in to
transaction particularly in the quality of books that we have relative to other people that
really have problems. And therefore you've seen this enormously beneﬁcial economics
for our partners and for us because the quality is so strong.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we really have to get the timing right in order to extract the maximum value for our
shareholders. This is diﬀerent for other people that have real problems and really need to
get out of businesses, which we have been addressing quite a few years ago. So, this is
now really about optimizing risk and return and it is not about solving a problem per se,
because we don't think we have a problem, really left other than the smaller items. And
that is super important. We are literally thinking about the transformation. Now, the next
step is not just thinking about in-force, but also leveraging because there I love your
question. How can we do this for new business. So what we're working on is to work with
private capital, to say, there are highly competitive segments of the market in the U.S. and
elsewhere, can we not set up structures -- where we do the product design, where we do
the distribution, we capture a very nice share of the value creation. And then put the
business on to balance sheet that have much better cost of capital than we do have.
So that's the next level of transformation that we're working on and wait, it's coming some
of that is coming '22. So we're super excited to drive a value creation massively. So now I
made the joke and says for as Giulio said with the P&C business, with a new business
strain of 30, so the percent of net earned premium, if we could do the same thing in P&C
to really not have an SCR strain, any more from new business, then we found really a cool
trick, kidding aside. So in life we've made huge progress after working out for working
years. And now, it's really about driving growth at ever-rising ROEs. And I would like to
point out, the key thing is not the ROEs, it is to reduce the tail exposure.
So making sure that we systematically reduce the exposure to tail shocks. And you're
going to see that in the reducing volatility of our Solvency II ratio and strongly growing
Solvency 2 ratios, because the new business now is going to be accretive to Solvency II,
and which is a total change, and it's coming this year. Right, I think, the investors
community has not really understood yet and picked it up.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

That's it. Thanks for the very comprehensive answer.

Operator

Page 28 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

All right. We have one caller in the queue. Then I guess we have to come to an end. We
will take our last question from Thomas Fossard from HSBC. Thomas, the line is yours.

FINAL

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon, everyone. Just one last question for me, related to your Credit
Insurance business so you are back to very strong operating proﬁtability in 2021. Giulio,
could you tell us how you're dealing with the proﬁt sharing or repayment of the public
scheme? And how much you've been able to front-load, if you wish the proﬁt sharing that
you need -- that you hold to this state, to the diﬀerent state? And -- or how much we
should expect still to come in 2022?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you. That's -- we start the agreement, basically in June 2021. So in 2022, there is no
proﬁt sharing. Now, what is happening to the standards, the reserve are set
conservatively, when we have a runoﬀ, we are sharing the run-oﬀ, the positive run-oﬀ with
the states, but the majority of that happened already in 2021. So, I would say as of 2022,
since we are out of this proﬁt sharing and since the excess prudence in the reserve has
been also released, there is not much left from that point of view.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Okay. So, 2022 in the --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Business --business as usual. Yes. Absolutely.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
All right. Thanks very much for everybody who joined the called. In case, there are any
questions left, please call myself or my team. We will be very happy to help. For now, we
say goodbye. We wish you a very pleasant remaining day and a nice weekend. Goodbye.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Thank you so much.

Page 29 of 30



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Page 30 of 30

